


Health Recharge -
Policy Terms & Conditions

1. Preamble
This ‘Health Recharge’ policy is a contract of insurance between You and Us which is subject to 
payment of full premium in advance and the terms, conditions and exclusions of this Policy. This 
Policy has been issued on the basis of the Disclosure to Information Norm, including the 
information provided by You in the Proposal Form and / or the Information Summary Sheet.

Please inform Us immediately of any change in the address or any other changes affecting You or any 
Insured Person which would impact the benefits, terms and conditions under this Policy.

In addition, please note the list of exclusions is set out in Section 6 of this Policy.

2. Definitions
For the purposes of interpretation and understanding of this Policy, We have defined some of the 
important words used in the Policy which will have the special meaning accorded to these terms for 
the purposes of this Policy. For the remaining language and words used, the usual meaning as 
described in standard English language dictionaries shall apply. The words and expressions defined 
in the Insurance Act 1938, IRDA Act 1999, regulations notified by the IRDAI and circulars and 
guidelines issued by the IRDAI, together with their amendment shall carry the meanings given 
therein.

Note: Where the context permits, the singular will be deemed to include the plural, one gender 
shall be deemed to include the other genders and references to any statute shall be deemed to refer 
to any replacement or amendment of that statute.

2.1. Standard Definitions

I.   Accident or Accidental means a sudden, unforeseen and involuntary event caused by external, 
visible and violent means.
II.   AYUSH Treatment refers to the medical and / or hospitalization treatments given under 
Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Sidha and Homeopathy systems. Associated Medical Expenses 
shall include Room Rent, nursing charges, Medical Practitioners' fees and operation theatre 
charges.
IV.  Cancer means a malignant tumor characterized by the uncontrolled growth and spread of 
malignant cells with invasion and destruction of normal tissues. This diagnosis must be supported 
by histological evidence of malignancy. The term cancer includes leukemia, lymphoma and sarcoma.
The following are excluded:
i.  All tumors which are histologically described as carcinoma in situ, benign, pre-malignant, 
borderline malignant, low malignant potential, neoplasm of unknown behavior, or non-invasive, 
including but not limited to: Carcinoma in situ of breasts, Cervical dysplasia CIN-1, CIN - 2 and 
CIN-3.
niva
Health Insurance







Any non-melanoma skin carcinoma unless there is evidence of metastases to lymph nodes or beyond;
iii. Malignant melanoma that has not caused invasion beyond the epidermis;
iv. All tumors of the prostate unless histologically classified as having a Gleason score greater 
than 6 or having progressed to at least clinical TNM classification T2N0M0
v.  All Thyroid cancers histologically classified as T1N0M0 (TNM Classification) or below;
vi. Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia less than RAI stage 3
vii. Non-invasive  papillary  cancer  of  the bladder histologically described as TaNOMO or of a 
lesser classification
viii. All Gastro-Intestinal Stromal Tumors histologically classified as T1N0M0 (TNM Classification) 
or below and with mitotic count of less than or equal to 5/50 HPFs;
ix. All tumors in the presence of HIV infection.
V.   Cashless Facility means a facility extended by the insurer to the insured where the payments, 
of the costs of treatment undergone by the insured in accordance with the policy terms and 
conditions, are directly made to the network provider by the insurer to the extent 
pre-authorization is approved.
VI.  Condition Precedent shall mean a Policy term or condition upon which the Insurer's liability 
under the Policy is conditional upon.
VII.  Congenital Anomaly means a condition which is present since birth, and which is abnormal with 
reference to form, structure or position.
a. Internal Congenital Anomaly: Congenital Anomaly which is not in the visible and accessible parts 
of the body.
b. External Congenital Anomaly: Congenital Anomaly which is in the visible and accessible parts of 
the body.
VIII.  Co-payment means a cost-sharing requirement under a health insurance policy that provides 
that the Policyholder/ insured will bear a specified percentage of the admissible claim amount. A 
Co-payment does not reduce the Sum Insured.
Cumulative Bonus means any increase or addition in the Sum Insured granted by the insurer without 
an associated increase in premium.
X.   Day Care Center means any institution established for Day Care Treatment of Illness and/or 
Injuries or a medical set-up with a Hospital and which has been registered with the local 
authorities, wherever applicable, and is under the supervision of a registered and qualified 
Medical Practitioner AND must comply with all minimum criterion as under:
a. has Qualified Nursing staff under its employment;
b. has qualified Medical Practitioner(s) in charge;
c. has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where Surgical Procedures are carried out;
d.  maintains daily records of patients and will make these


Product Name: Health Recharge I roduct UIN: NBHHLIP22156V032122




accessible to the insurance company's authorized personnel.
XI.  Day Care Treatment refers to medical treatment, and/or Surgical Procedure which is:
a. undertaken under General or Local Anaesthesia in a Hospital/Day Care Center in less than 24 hrs 
because of technological advancement, and
b.  which would have otherwise required a Hospitalization of more than 24 hours.
Treatment normally taken on an OPD basis is not included in the scope of this definition.
XII.  Deductible means a cost-sharing requirement under a health insurance policy that provides 
that the Insurer will not be liable for a specified rupee amount in case of indemnity policies and 
for a specified number of days/ hours in case of hospital cash policies which will apply before any 
benefits are payable by the insurer. A deductible does not reduce the Sum Insured.
XIII.  Dental Treatment means a treatment related to teeth or structures supporting teeth including 
examinations, fillings (where appropriate), crowns, extractions and Surgery.
XIV.  Disclosure to Information Norm means the Policy shall be void and all premium paid thereon 
shall be forfeited to the Company, in the event of misrepresentation, mis- description or 
non-disclosure of any material fact.
XV.  Domiciliary Hospitalization means medical treatment for an Illness/disease/Injury which in the 
normal course would require care and treatment at a Hospital but is actually taken while confined 
at home under any of the following circumstances:
a. the condition of the patient is such that he/she is not in a condition to be removed to a 
Hospital, or
b. the patient takes treatment at home on account of non availability of room in a Hospital.
XVI.  Emergency means a medical condition or symptom resulting from Illness or Injury which arises 
suddenly and unexpectedly and requires immediate care and treatment by a Medical Practitioner to 
prevent death or serious long term impairment of the Insured Person's health.
XVII.  Grace Period means the specified period of time immediately following the premium due date 
during which a payment can be made to Renew or continue a policy in force without loss of 
continuity benefits such as Waiting Periods and coverage of Pre-existing Diseases. Coverage is not 
available for the period for which no premium is received.
XVIII. Hospital means any institution established for Inpatient Care and Day Care Treatment of 
Illness and / or Injuries and which has been registered as a Hospital with the local authorities 
under the Clinical Establishments (Registration and Regulation) Act, 2010 or under the enactments 
specified under the Schedule of Section 56(1) of the said Act OR complies with all minimum criteria 
as under:
a. has Qualified Nursing staff under its employment round the clock;
b. has at least 10 Inpatient beds in towns having a population of less than 10,00,000 and at least 
15 Inpatient beds in all other places;
c. has qualified Medical Practitioner(s) in charge round the clock;



XIX.



XX.




XXI.

















XXII.



XXlll.






XXIV. XXV. XRVl.
where Surgical Procedures are carried out;
e. maintains daily records of patients and makes these accessible to the Insurance company's 
authorized personnel.
Hospitalization or Hospitalized means the admission in a Hospital for a minimum period of 24 
consecutive Inpatient Care hours except for specified procedures/treatments, where such admission 
could be for a period of less than 24 consecutive hours.
ICU (Intensive Care Unit) Charges means the amount charged by a Hospital towards ICU expenses which 
shall include the expenses for ICU bed, general medical support services provided to any ICU 
patient including monitoring devices, critical care nursing and intensivist charges.
Illness means a sickness or a disease or pathological condition leading to the impairment of normal 
physiological function and requires medical treatment.
(a) Acute condition - Acute condition is a disease, illness or injury that is likely to respond 
quickly to treatment which aims to return the person to his or her state of health immediately 
before suffering the disease/ illness/ injury which leads to full recovery
(b) Chronic condition - A chronic condition is defined as a disease, illness, or injury that has 
one or more of the following characteristics:
it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, check-ups, and /or 
tests
it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms
it requires rehabilitation for the patient or for the patient to be specially trained to cope with 
it
iv. it continues indefinitely
v.  it recurs or is likely to recur
Injury means Accidental physical bodily harm excluding Illness or disease solely and directly 
caused by external, violent and visible and evident means which is verified and certified by a 
Medical Practitioner.
Intensive Care Unit means an identified section, ward or wing of a Hospital which is under the 
constant supervision of a dedicated Medical Practitioner(s), and which is specially equipped for 
the continuous monitoring and treatment of patients who are in a critical condition, or require 
life support facilities and where the level of care and supervision is considerably more 
sophisticated and intensive than in the ordinary and other wards.
Inpatient Care means treatment for which the Insured Person has to stay in a Hospital for more than 
24 hours for a covered event.
Medical Advice means any consultation or advice from a Medical Practitioner including the issuance 
of any prescription or follow-up prescription.
Medical Expenses means those expenses that an Insured Person has necessarily and actually incurred 
for medical treatment on account of Illness or Accident on the advice of a Medical Practitioner, as 
long as these are no more than would have been payable if the Insured Person had not been insured 
and no more than other Hospitals or doctors in the same locality would have charged for the same 
medical treatment.
d. has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own   XXVII. Medical Practitioner means a person 
who holds a valid


Product Name: Health Recharge I roduct UIN: NBHHLIP22156V032122




registration from the Medical Council of any State or Medical Council of India or Council for 
Indian Medicine or for Homeopathy set up by the Government of India or a State Government and is 
thereby entitled to practice medicine within its jurisdiction; and is acting within the scope and 
jurisdiction of his licence.
XXVIII. Medically Necessary Treatment means any treatment, tests, medication, or stay in Hospital 
or part of a stay in Hospital which:
a. is required for the medical management of the Illness or Injury suffered by the insured;
b. must not exceed the level of care necessary to provide safe, adequate and appropriate medical 
care in scope, duration, or intensity;
c. must have been prescribed by a Medical Practitioner;
d. must conform to the professional standards widely accepted in international medical practice or 
by the medical community in India.
XXIX. Network Provider means Hospital enlisted by an insurer, TPA or jointly by an insurer and TPA 
to provide medical services to an insured by a Cashless Facility.
XXX. Notification of Claim means the process of intimating a claim to the insurer or TPA through 
any of the recognized modes of communication.
XXXI. Non-Network means any Hospital, Day Care Center or other provider that is not part of the 
network.
XXXII. OPD Treatment means the one in which the Insured visits a clinic / Hospital or associated 
facility like a consultation room for diagnosis and treatment based on the advice of a Medical 
Practitioner. The Insured is not admitted as a day care or In-patient.
XXXIII. Pre-existing Disease
Pre-existing Disease means any condition, ailment, injury or disease:
a) That is/are diagnosed by a physician within 48 months prior to the effective date of the policy 
issued by the insurer or its reinstatement or
b) For which medical advice or treatment was recommended by, or received from, a physician within 
48 months prior to the effective date of the policy issued by the insurer or its reinstatement.
XXXIV. Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses means medical expenses incurred during pre-defined 
number of days preceding the hospitalization of the Insured Person, provided that:
a. Such Medical Expenses are incurred for the same condition for which the Insured Person's 
Hospitalization was required, and
b. The Inpatient Hospitalization claim for such Hospitalization is admissible by the Insurance 
Company.
XXXV. Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses means medical expenses incurred during pre-defined 
number of days immediately after the Insured Person is discharged from the Hospital, provided that:
a. Such Medical Expenses are for the same condition for which the Insured Person's Hospitalization 
was required, and
b. The Inpatient Hospitalization claim for such Hospitalization is admissible by the Insurance 
Company.
XXXVI. Portability means the right accorded to an individual health insurance policyholder 
(including family cover), to transfer the credit gained for Pre-existing conditions and time bound 
exclusions, from one insurer to another or from one plan to another plan of the same insurer.
XXXVII. Qualified Nurse means a person who holds a valid registration from the Nursing Council of 
India or the Nursing Council of any state in India.
XXXVIII. Reasonable and Customary Charges means the charges for services or supplies, which are the 
standard charges for the specific provider and consistent with the prevailing charges in the 
geographical area for identical or similar services, taking into account the nature of the Illness 
/ Injury involved.
XXXIX. Renewal means the terms on which the contract of insurance can be renewed on mutual consent 
with a provision of Grace Period for treating the renewal continuous for the purpose of gaining 
credit for pre- existing diseases, time bound exclusions and for all Waiting Periods.
XL.  Room Rent means the amount charged by a Hospital towards Room and Boarding expenses and shall 
include the Associated Medical Expenses.
XLI.  Surgery or Surgical Procedure means manual and / or operative procedure (s) required for 
treatment of an Illness or Injury, correction of deformities and defects, diagnosis and cure of 
diseases, relief from suffering or prolongation of life, performed in a Hospital or Day Care Center 
by a Medical Pracfifioner.

2.2. Specific Definitions
I.   Age means age as on last birthday.
II.  Base Sum Insured means the amount stated in the Policy Schedule.
III.  Bone Marrow Transplant is the actual undergoing of a transplant of human bone marrow using 
haematopoietic stem cells. The undergoing of a transplant has to be confirmed by a specialist 
medical practitioner. The following will be excluded:
Other stem-cell transplants
Where only islets of langerhans are transplanted
IV.  Break in Policy means the period of gap that occurs at the end of the existing policy term, 
when the premium due for renewal on a given policy is not paid on or before the premium renewal 
date or within 30 days thereof.
V.  Critical Illness, an Illness, medical event or Surgical Procedure specifically defined in 
Section 4.2.
VI.  Diagnostic Services means those diagnostic tests and exploratory or therapeutic procedures 
required for the detection, identification and treatment of a medical condition.
VII.  Evidence Based Clinical Practice means process of making clinical decisions for Inpatient 
Care using current best evidence in conjugation with clinical expertise.
VIII.  e-Consultation means opinion from a Medical Practitioner who holds a valid registration from 
the medical council of any state or medical council of India or council for Indian medicine or for 
homeopathy set up by the Government of India or a state government and is thereby entitled to 
practice medicine within its jurisdiction; and is acting within the scope and jurisdiction of his 
license.


Product Name: Health Recharge I roduct UIN: NBHHLIP22156V032122




IX.  Family Floater Policy means a Policy described as such in the Policy Schedule where the family 
members (two or more) named in the Policy Schedule are Insured Persons under this Policy. Only the 
following family members can be covered under a Family Floater Policy:
a. Primary Insured Person; and/or
b. Primary Insured Person's legally married spouse (for as long as she/he continues to be married 
to the Primary Insured Person); and/or
c.  Primary Insured Person's children who are less than 25 years of Age on the commencement of the 
Policy Period (a maximum 4 children can be covered under the Policy as Insured Persons).
X.  First Policy means for the purposes of this Policy the Policy Schedule issued to the 
Policyholder at the time of inception of the first Policy mentioned in the Policy Schedule with Us.
XI.  Health Recharge means and includes ‘Niva Bupa Health Recharge’ policy.
XII.  Information Summary Sheet means the information and details provided to Us or Our 
representatives over the telephone for the purposes of applying for this Policy which has been 
recorded by Us and confirmed by You.
XIII.  Individual Policy means a Policy described as such in the Policy Schedule where the 
individual named in the Policy Schedule is the Insured Person under this Policy.
DV.  Insured Event means any event specifically mentioned as covered under this Policy.
XV.  Insured Person means person(s) named as insured persons in the Policy Schedule.
XVI.  IRDAI means the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India.
XVII. Medical Record means the collection of information as submitted in claim documentation 
concerning a Insured Person's Illness or Injury that is created and maintained in the regular 
course of management, made by Medical Practitioners who have knowledge of the acts, events, 
opinions or diagnoses relating to the Insured Person's Illness or Injury, and made at or around the 
time indicated in the documentation.
XVIII. Mental Illness means a substantial disorder of thinking, mood, perception, orientation or 
memory that grossly impairs judgment, behaviour, capacity to recognise reality or ability to meet 
the ordinary demands of life, mental conditions associated with the abuse of alcohol and drugs, but 
does not include mental retardation which is a condition of arrested or incomplete development of 
mind of a person, specially characterised by subnormality of intelligence.
XIX.  Policy means these terms and conditions, the Policy Schedule (as amended from time to time), 
Your statements in the Proposal and the Information Summary Sheet and any endorsements attached by 
Us to the Policy from time to time.
XX.  Policy Period  is the period between the inception date and the expiry date of the Policy as 
specified in the Policy Schedule or the date of cancellation of this Policy, whichever is earlier.
XXI.  Policy Year means the period of one year commencing on the date of commencement specified in 
the Policy Schedule or any anniversary thereof.
XXII.  Policy Schedule means a certificate issued by Us, and, if more than one, then the latest in 
time. The Policy Schedule contains details of the Policyholder, Insured Persons, the Sum Insured 
and other relevant details related to the coverage.
XXIII. Primary Insured Person means the Policyholder if he/ she is covered under the Policy as an 
Insured Person. In case Policyholder is not an Insured Person, then Primary Insured Person will be 
the eldest Insured Person covered under the Policy.
XXIV. Reimbursement means settlement of claims paid directly by Us to the Policyholder/Insured 
Person.
XXV.  Service Provider means any person, organization, institution that has been empanelled with Us 
to provide services specified under the benefits to the Insured Person.
XXVI. Single Private Room means an air conditioned room in a Hospital where a single patient is 
accommodated and which has an attached toilet (lavatory and bath). Such room type shall be the most 
basic and the most economical of all accommodations available as a single room in that Hospital.
XXVII. Standby Services are services of another Medical Practitioner requested by treating Medical 
Practitioner and involving prolonged attendance without direct (face- to-face) patient contact or 
involvement.
XXVIII. Sum Insured means the total of the Base Sum Insured and Loyalty Addition as per Section 
3.11 (if applicable) which is Our maximum, total and cumulative liability for any and all claims 
during the Policy Year in respect of all Insured Person(s) which is specified in the Policy 
Schedule.
XXIX. Survival Period means the period, if any, specified under the Policy after the occurrence of 
an Insured Event that the Insured Person has to survive before a claim becomes admissible under the 
Policy.
XXX. Waiting Period means a time-bound exclusion period related to condition(s) specified in the 
Policy Schedule or the Policy which shall be served before a claim related to such condition(s) 
becomes admissible.
XXXI. We/Our/Us means Niva Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited.
You/Your/Policyholder means the person named in the Policy Schedule who has concluded this Policy 
with Us.

3. Benefits covered under the Policy

The benefits available under this Policy are described below.

a. The Policy covers Reasonable and Customary Charges incurred towards medical treatment taken by 
the Insured Person during the Policy Period for an Illness, Injury or condition as described in the 
sections below and contracted or sustained during the Policy Period. The benefits listed in the 
sections below will be payable subject to the terms, conditions and exclusions of this Policy and 
the availability of the Sum Insured and any sub-limits for the benefit as maybe specified in the 
Policy Schedule. You have to mandatorily choose an annual aggregate claim Deductible amount, 
options of these Deductible amounts are provided in the section ‘Product Benefit Table’.
b. All the benefits (including optional benefits) which are available under the Policy along with 
the respective limits


Product Name: Health Recharge I roduct UIN: NBHHLIP22156V032122




/ amounts applicable based on the Sum Insured have been summarized in the Product Benefit Table in 
Annexure I.
c. All claims under the Policy must be made in accordance with the process defined under Section 
7.2 (XII) (Claim Process & Requirements).
d. All claims paid under any benefit except for those admitted under Section 3.9 (e-Consultation), 
Section 4.1 (Personal Accident Cover) and Section 4.2 (Critical Illness Cover) shall reduce the Sum 
Insured for the Policy Year in which the Insured Event in relation to which the claim is made has 
been occurred, unless otherwise specified in the respective section. Thereafter only the balance 
Sum Insured after payment of claim amounts admitted shall be available for future claims arising in 
that Policy Year.

I.  Inpatient Care

What is covered:
We will indemnify the Medical Expenses incurred for one or more of the following due to the Insured 
Person's Hospitalization during the Policy Period following an Illness or Injury. :
Room Rent;
ii. Room boarding and nursing charges during Hospitalization as charged by the Hospital where the 
Insured Person availed medical treatment;
Medical Practitioners' fees, excluding any charges or fees for Standby Services;
iv. Investigative tests or diagnostic procedures directly related to the Insured Event which lead 
to the current Hospitalization;
v. Medicines, drugs as prescribed by the treating Medical Practitioner related to the Insured Event 
that led to the current Hospitalization;
vi. Intravenous fluids, blood transfusion, injection administration charges and /or allowable 
consumables;
vii. Operation theatre charges;
viii. The cost of prosthetics and other devices or equipment, if implanted internally during 
Surgery;
ix. Intensive Care Unit Charges.

Conditions:
a. The Hospitalization is for Medically Necessary Treatment and advised in writing by a Medical 
Practitioner.
b. If the Insured Person is admitted in a Hospital room where the room category opted or Room Rent 
incurred is higher than the eligibility as specified in the Policy Schedule, then We shall be 
liable to pay only a pro-rated portion of the total Associated Medical Expenses (including 
surcharge or taxes thereon) as per the following formula:
(Eligible Room Rent limit / Room Rent actually incurred) * total Associated Medical Expenses
Associated Medical Expenses shall include Room Rent, nursing charges, Medical Practitioners' fees 
and operation theatre charges.
c. We will pay the consultation charges for any Medical Practitioner visiting the Insured Person 
only if:
i.  The Medical Practitioner's treatment or advice has been specifically sought by the Hospital; 
and
The consultation charges are included in the Hospital's bill
II. Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses

What is covered:
We will indemnify on Reimbursement basis only, the Insured Person's Pre-hospitalization Medical 
Expenses incurred in respect of an Illness or Injury.

Conditions:
a. We have accepted a claim under Section 3.1 (Inpatient Care) or Section 3.4 (Day Care Treatment) 
or Section 3.5 (Domiciliary Hospitalization) or Section 3.6 (Alternative Treatments).
b. Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses are incurred for the same condition for which We have 
accepted the Inpatient Care or Day Care Treatment or Domiciliary Hospitalization or Alternative 
Treatments claim.
c.  The expenses are incurred after the inception of the First Policy with Us. If any portion of 
these expenses is incurred before the inception of the First Policy with Us, then We shall be 
liable only for those expenses incurred after the commencement date of the First Policy, 
irrespective of the initial waiting period.
d. Pre-hospitalization  Medical  Expenses  incurred  on physiotherapy will also be payable provided 
that such physiotherapy is prescribed in writing by the treating Medical Practitioner as Medically 
Necessary Treatment and is directly related to the same condition that led to Hospitalization.
e. Any claim admitted under this Section 3.2 shall reduce the Sum Insured for the Policy Year in 
which In-patient Care or Day Care Treatment or Domiciliary Hospitalization or Alternative 
Treatments claim has been incurred.

Sub-limit:
a. We will pay above mentioned Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses only for period up to 60 days 
immediately preceding the Insured Person's admission for Inpatient Care or Day Care Treatment or 
Domiciliary Hospitalization or Alternative Treatments.

Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses

What is covered:
We will indemnify on Reimbursement basis only, the Insured Person's Post-hospitalization Medical 
Expenses incurred following an Illness or Injury.

Conditions:
a. We have accepted a claim under Section 3.1 (Inpatient Care) or Section 3.4 (Day Care Treatment) 
or Section 3.5 (Domiciliary Hospitalization) or Section 3.6 (Alternative Treatments).
b. Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses are incurred for the same condition for which We have 
accepted the Inpatient Care, Day Care Treatment or Domiciliary Hospitalization or Alternative 
Treatments claim.
c. The expenses incurred shall be as advised in writing by the treating Medical Practitioner.
d. Post-hospitalization  Medical  Expenses  incurred  on physiotherapy will also be payable 
provided that such physiotherapy is prescribed in writing by the treating Medical Practitioner as 
Medically Necessary Treatment and is directly related to the same condition that led to 
Hospitalization.
e. Any claim admitted under this Section 3.3 shall reduce the

Product Name: Health Recharge I roduct UIN: NBHHLIP22156V032122




Sum Insured for the Policy Year in which In-patient Care or Day Care Treatment or Domiciliary 
Hospitalization or Alternative Treatments claim has been incurred.

Sub-limit:
a. We will pay Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses only for up to 90 days immediately following 
the Insured Person's discharge from Hospital or Day Care Treatment or Domiciliary Hospitalization 
or Alternative Treatments.

IV. Day Care Treatment

What is covered:
We will indemnify the Medical Expenses incurred on the Insured Person's any Day Care Treatment 
during the Policy Period following an Illness or Injury.

Conditions:
a. The Day Care Treatment is advised in writing by a Medical Practitioner as Medically Necessary 
Treatment.
b. If We have accepted a claim under this benefit, We will also indemnify the Insured Person's 
Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses and Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses in accordance with 
Sections 3.2 and 3.3 above.

What is not covered:
OPD Treatment and Diagnostic Services costs are not covered under this benefit.

V. Domiciliary Hospitalization

What is covered.
We will indemnify on Reimbursement basis only, the Medical Expenses incurred for the Insured 
Person's Domiciliary Hospitalization during the Policy Period following an Illness or Injury.

Conditions:
a.  a.    The Domiciliary Hospitalization continues for at least 3 consecutive days in which case 
We will make payment under this benefit in respect of Medical Expenses incurred from the first day 
of Domiciliary Hospitalization;
b. b.   The treating Medical Practitioner confirms in writing that the Insured Person's condition 
was such that the Insured Person could not be transferred to a Hospital OR the Insured Person 
satisfies Us that a Hospital bed was unavailable.
c.  c.    If We have accepted a claim under this benefit, We will also indemnify the Insured 
Person's Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses and Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses in 
accordance with Sections 3.2 and 3.3 above.

VI. Alternative Treatments
What is covered:
We will indemnify the Medical Expenses incurred on the Insured Person's Hospitalization for 
Inpatient Care during the Policy Period on treatment taken under Ayurveda, Unani, Siddha and 
Homeopathy.

Conditions:
a. The treatment should be taken in AYUSH Hospital. An AYUSH Hospital is a healthcare facility 
wherein medical / surgical /
para-surgical treatment procedures and interventions are carried out by AYUSH Medical 
Practitioner(s) comprising of any of the following:
Central or state government AYUSH Hospital; or Teaching Hospital attached to AYUSH college 
recognized by the Central Government / Central Council of Indian Medicine / Central Council of 
Homeopathy; or
AYUSH Hospital, standalone or co-located with in-patient healthcare facility of any recognized 
system of medicine, registered with the local authorities, wherever applicable and is under the 
supervision of a qualified registered AYUSH Medical Practitioner and must comply with all the 
following criterion:
a) Having at least five in-patient beds;
b) Having qualified AYUSH Medical Practitioner in charge round the clock;
c) Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections as required and/or has equipped operation theatre where 
surgical procedures are to be carried out;
d) Maintaining daily records of the patients and making them accessible to the insurance company's 
authorized representative.

AYUSH Hospitals referred above shall also obtain either pre-entry level certificate (or higher 
level of certificate) issued by National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers 
(NABH) or State Level Certificate (or higher level of certificate) under National Quality Assurance 
Standards (NQAS), issued by National Health Systems Resources Centre (NHSRC).
a. Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses incurred for up to 60 days immediately preceding the 
Insured Person's admission and Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses incurred for up to 90 days 
immediately following the Insured Person's discharge will also be indemnified under this benefit in 
accordance with Sections 3.2 and 3.3 above, provided that these Medical Expenses relate only to 
Alternative Treatments and not Allopathy.
b. Any non-allopathictreatmenttaken by the Insured Person shall only be covered under Section 3.6 
(Alternative Treatments) as per the applicable terms and conditions, except for treatment under 
Section 3.12 (Mental Disorders Treatment) and Section
3.13 (HIV / AIDS).

What is not covered:
a. Medical Expenses incurred on treatment taken under Yoga shall not be covered.

VII. Living Organ Donor Transplant

What is covered:
We will indemnify the Medical Expenses incurred for a living organ donor's treatment as an 
Inpatient for the harvesting of the organ donated.

Conditions:
a. The donation conforms to the Transplantation of Human Organs Act 1994 and any amendments 
thereafter and the organ is for the use of the Insured Person.
b. The organ transplant is certified in writing by a Medical Practitioner as Medically Necessary 
Treatment for the Insured Person.


Product Name: Health Recharge I roduct UIN: NBHHLIP22156V032122




c. We have accepted the recipient Insured Person's claim under Section 3.1 (Inpatient Care).

What is not covered:
a. Stem cell donation whether or not it is Medically Necessary Treatment except for Bone Marrow 
Transplant.
b. Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses or Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses of the organ 
donor.
c.  Screening or any other Medical Expenses related to the organ donor, which are not incurred 
during the duration of Insured Person's Hospitalization for organ transplant.
d. Transplant of any organ/tissue where the transplant is Unproven / experimental treatment or 
investigational in nature.
e. Expenses related to organ transportation or preservation.
f.  Any other medical treatment or complication in respect of the donor, which is directly or 
indirectly consequence to harvesting.

VIII. Emergency Ambulance
What is covered:
We will indemnify the costs incurred, on transportation of the Insured Person by road Ambulance to 
a Hospital for treatment in an Emergency following an Illness or Injury.

Conditions:
a. The medical condition of the Insured Person requires immediate ambulance services from the place 
where the Insured Person is injured or is ill to a Hospital where appropriate medical treatment can 
be obtained or;
b. The medical condition of the Insured Person requires immediate ambulance services from the 
existing Hospital to another Hospital with advanced facilities as advised by the treating Medical 
Practitioner for management of the current Hospitalization.
c. This benefit is available for only one transfer per Hospitalization.
d. The ambulance service shall be offered by a healthcare or ambulance Service Provider.
e. We have accepted a claim under Section 3.1 (Inpatient Care) above.
f.  We will cover expenses up to the amount specified in Your Policy Schedule.

What is not covered:
The Insured Person's transfer to any Hospital or diagnostic centre for evaluation purposes only.

IX. e-Consultation
What is covered:
If the Insured Person is diagnosed with an Illness or is planning to undergo a planned Surgery or a 
Surgical Procedure, the Insured Person can, at the Insured Person's sole direction, obtain an 
e-Consultation from Our Service Provider during the Policy Period.

Conditions:
a. e-Consultation shall be requested through Our call centre or website.
b. e-Consultation will be arranged by Us (without any liabilities) and will be based solely only on 
the information provided by the Insured Person.
c.  e-Consultation must not be considered a substitute to medical opinion or advice nor shall be 
same pursued over a medical advice or opinion given by treating physician or doctor.
d. By seeking e-Consultation under this benefit, the Insured Person is not prohibited or advised 
against visiting or consulting with any other independent Medical Practitioner or commencing or 
continuing any treatment advised by such Medical Practitioner.
e.  The Insured Person is free to choose whether or not to obtain the e-Consultation, and if 
obtained then whether or not to act on it in whole or in part.
f.  e-Consultation under this benefit shall not be valid for any medico-legal purposes.
g.  We do not represent correctness of e-Consultation and shall not assume or deem to assume any 
liability towards any loss or damage arising out of or in relation to any opinion, advice, 
prescription, actual or alleged errors, omissions and representations made by the Medical 
Practitioner.

X. Pharmacy and Diagnostic Services
What is covered:
You may purchase medicines or avail diagnostic services from Our Service Provider through Our 
website or mobile application.

Conditions - The above coverage is subject to fulfilment of following conditions:
a. The cost for the purchase of the medicines or for availing diagnostic services shall be borne by 
You.
b. Further it is made clear that purchase of medicines from Our Service Provider is Your absolute 
discretion and choice.

XI. Loyalty Additions (applicable only for Base Sum Insured up to
Rs. 25 Lac)
What is covered:
a. If the Policy is Renewed with Us without a break or if the Policy continues to be in force for 
the 2nd Policy Year in the 2 year / 3 year Policy Period respectively (if applicable), We will 
provide Loyalty Additions in the form of Cumulative Bonus by increasing the Sum Insured applicable 
under the Policy by 5% of the Base Sum Insured of the immediately preceding Policy Year subject to 
a maximum of 50% of the Base Sum Insured. There will be no change in the sub-limits applicable to 
various benefits due to increase in Sum Insured under this benefit.

Conditions:
a. If the Insured Person in the expiring Policy is covered under an Individual Policy and has an 
accumulated Cumulative Bonus in the expiring Policy under this benefit, and such expiring Policy is 
Renewed with Us on a Family Floater Policy, then We will provide the credit for the accumulated 
Cumulative Bonus to the Family Floater Policy.
b. If the Insured Persons in the expiring Policy are covered on a Family Floater Policy and such 
Insured Persons Renew their expiring Policy with Us by splitting the Floater Sum Insured stated in 
the Policy Schedule in to two or more floater / individual, then We will provide the credit of the 
accumulated Cumulative Bonus to each of the split Policy.
c. If the Insured Persons covered on a Family Floater Policy are reduced at the time of Renewal, 
the applicable accumulated Cumulative Bonus shall remain same under the Policy.
d. In case the Base Sum Insured under the Policy is reduced at


Product Name: Health Recharge I roduct UIN: NBHHLIP22156V032122




the time of Renewal, the applicable accumulated Cumulative Bonus shall also be reduced in 
proportion to the Base Sum Insured..
e. In case the Base Sum Insured under the Policy is increased at the time of Renewal, the 
applicable accumulated Cumulative Bonus shall also be increased in proportion to the Base Sum 
Insured..
f.  This benefit is not applicable for e-Consultation and Optional benefits (if opted for) such as 
Personal Accident Cover and Critical Illness Cover. Enhancement of Sum Insured due to Loyalty 
Additions benefit cannot be utilized for the aforementioned benefits.
attempted suicide by any means.
c. Any neuro-developmental delays and disorders.
d. Mental retardation which is a condition of arrested or incomplete development of mind of a 
person, specially characterized by subnormality of intelligence

Sub-limit:
a. The following disorders / conditions shall be covered only up to 10% of Base Sum Insured or Rs. 
50,000, whichever is lower. This sub-limit shall apply for all the following disorders
/ conditions on cumulative basis.

g.  This benefit is not applicable for Policy with Base Sum Insured greater than Rs. 25 Lac.

XII. Mental Disorders Treatment
What is covered:
We will indemnify the expenses incurred by the Insured Person for Inpatient treatment for Mental 
Illness up to the limit as specified in Your Policy Schedule.

Conditions:
a. Mental Disorders Treatment is only covered where patient is diagnosed by a qualified 
psychiatrist or a professional registered with the concerned State Authority or a professional 
having a post-graduate degree (Ayurveda) in Mano Vigyan Avum Manas Roga or a post-graduate degree 
(Homoeopathy) in Psychiatry or a post-graduate degree (Unani) in Moalijat (Nafasiyatt) or a 
post-graduate degree (Siddha) in Sirappu Maruthuvam.
b. The Hospitalization is for Medically Necessary Treatment.
c.  The treatment  should  be taken in Mental  Health Establishment, including Ayurveda, Yoga and 
Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy establishment, by whatever name called, either wholly or 
partly, meant for the care of persons with mental illness, established, owned, controlled or 
maintained by the appropriate Government, local
Disorder /
Condition
Severe Depression


Schizophrenia





Bipolar Disorder


Post traumatic stress disorder

Generalized anxiety disorder
Description

Severe depression is characterized by a persistent feeling of sadness or a lack of interest in 
outside stimuli. It affects the way one feels, thinks and behaves.
Schizophrenia is mental disorder, that distorts the way a person thinks, acts, expresses emotions, 
perceives reality, and relates to others. Schizophrenia result in combination of hallucinations, 
delusions, and extremely disordered thinking and behavior that impairs daily functioning,
Bipolar disorder is a mental illness that brings severe high and low moods and changes in sleep, 
energy, thinking, and behavior. It includes periods of extreme mood swings with emotional highs and 
lows.
Post-traumatic stress disorder is an anxiety disorder caused by very stressful, frightening or 
distressing events. It includes flashbacks, nightmares, severe anxiety and uncontrollable thoughts 
about the event.
Generalized Anxiety Disorder is a mental health disorder characterized by a perpetual state of 
worry, fear, apprehension, inability to relax.

authority, trust, whether private or public, corporation, co-operative society, organization or any 
other entity or person, where persons with mental illness are admitted and reside at, or kept in, 
for care, treatment, convalescence and rehabilitation, either temporarily or otherwise; and 
includes any general hospital or general nursing home established or maintained by the appropriate 
Government, local authority, trust, whether private or public, corporation, co-operative society, 
organization or any other entity or person; but does not include a family residential place where a 
person with mental illness resides with his relatives or friend.
d. Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses incurred for up to 60 days, if falling within the Policy 
Period, immediately preceding the Insured Person's admission and Post-hospitalization Medical 
Expenses incurred for up to 90 days, if falling within the Policy Period, immediately following the 
Insured Person's discharge will also be indemnified under this benefit as per Section 3.2 & Section 
3.3 respectively.

What is not covered:
a. The condition which is not clinically significant or is related to anxiety, bereavement, 
relationship or academic problems, acculturation difficulties or work pressure.
b. Treatment related to intentional self inflicted Injury or
ICD codes for the above disorders / conditions are provided in Annexure II.

b. Pre-hospitalization and Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses are also covered within the 
overall benefit sub-limit as specified above in point (a).

XIII. HIV / AIDS
What is covered:
We will indemnify the expenses incurred by the Insured Person for Hospitalization (including Day 
Care Treatment) due to condition caused by or associated with HIV / AIDS.

Conditions:
a. The Hospitalization or Day Care Treatment is Medically Necessary and the Illness is the outcome 
of HIV / AIDS. This needs to be prescribed in writing by a registered Medical Practitioner.
b. The coverage under this benefit is provided for opportunistic infections which are caused due to 
low immunity status in HIV
/ AIDS resulting in acute infections which may be bacterial, viral, fungal or parasitic.
c. The patient should be a declared HIV positive.
d. Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses incurred for up to 60


Product Name: Health Recharge I roduct UIN: NBHHLIP22156V032122




days, if falling within the Policy Period, immediately preceding the Insured Person's admission and 
Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses incurred for up to 90 days, if falling within the Policy 
Period, immediately following the Insured Person's discharge will also be indemnified will also be 
indemnified under this benefit as per Section 3.2 & Section 3.3 respectively.

What is not covered:
up to the sub-limit as specified for each procedure/treatment in the below table:


Deep Brain Stimulation            S Lac
Immunotherapy- Monoclonal Antibody to be  5 Lac given as injection

a. Chronic health conditions including ischemic heart disease, chronic liver disease, chronic 
kidney disease, cerebro-vascular disease/ stroke, bronchial asthma and neoplasms which are not 
directly related to the patient's immunity status would not be covered under this benefit.
b. Lifestyle diseases like diabetes, hypertension, heart diseases and dyslipidemia which are not 
related to HIV / AIDS would not be covered under this benefit.
Intra vitreal injections
Robotic surgeries Stereotactic radio surgeries BronchicalThermoplasty
Vaporisation of the prostrate (Green laser treatment or holmium laser treatment)
5 Lac
2.5 Lac
3.5 Lac 2 Lac 2 Lac


XIV. Artificial Life Maintenance:
What is covered:
We will indemnify the expenses incurred by the Insured Person for Artificial life maintenance, 
including life support machine used to sustain the Insured Person who is not brain dead, up to the 
limit as specified in Your Policy Schedule

Conditions:
a. Artificial life maintenance is Medically Necessary and prescribed by the treating Medical 
Practitioner.

What is not covered:
Artificial life maintenance for the Insured Person who has been declared brain dead or in 
vegetative state as demonstrated by:
a. Deep coma and unresponsiveness to all forms of stimulation;
OF
b. Absent pupillary light reaction; or
c. Absent oculovestibular and corneal reflexes; or
d. Complete apnea.

XV. Modern Treatments
What is covered:
The following procedures / treatments will be covered either as Inpatient Care or as part of Day 
Care Treatment in a hospital up to the limit as specified in Your Policy Schedule.
a. Uterine Artery Embolization and HIFU (High intensity focused ultrasound)
b. Balloon Sinuplasty
c. Deep Brain stimulation
d. Oral chemotherapy
e. Immunotherapy- Monoclonal Antibody to be given as injection
f.  Intra vitreal injections
g. Robotic surgeries
h. Stereotactic radio surgeries BronchicalThermoplasty
j.  Vaporisation of the prostrate (Green laser treatment or holmium laser treatment)
k. IONM - (Intra Operative Neuro Monitoring)
Stem cell therapy: Hematopoietic stem cells for bone marrow transplant for haematological 
conditions to be covered.

Sub-limit:
a. The following procedures / treatments shall be covered only
*Maximum payout will be the sub-limit specified or Base Sum
Insured, whichever is lower.

b. Pre-hospitalization and Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses are also covered within the 
overall benefit sub-limit as specified above in point (a).

XVI. The expenses that are not covered or subsumed into room charges / procedure charges / costs of 
treatment are placed as Annexure III

4. Optional Benefits
The following optional benefits shall apply under the Policy only if it is specified in the Policy 
Schedule. Optional benefits can be selected by You only at the time of issuance of the First Policy 
or at Renewal on payment of the corresponding additional premium.

The optional benefits ‘Personal Accident Cover’ and ‘Critical Illness Cover’ will be payable (only 
on Reimbursement basis) if the conditions mentioned in the below sections are contracted or 
sustained by the Insured Person covered under these optional benefits during the Policy Period.

The applicable optional benefits will be payable subject to the terms, conditions and exclusions of 
this Policy and subject always to any sub-limits for the optional benefit as specified in Your 
Policy Schedule.

All claims for any applicable optional benefits under the Policy must be made in accordance with 
the process defined under Section 7.2 (XII) (Claim Process & Requirements).

Personal Accident Cover
What is covered:
This optional benefit is available either to the Primary Insured Person or Primary Insured Person 
along with his/her spouse, which is specified in the Policy Schedule.

If the Insured Person covered under this optional benefit dies or sustains any Injury resulting 
solely and directly from an Accident occurring during the Policy Period at any location worldwide, 
and while the Policy is in force, We will provide the benefits described below.


Product Name: Health Recharge I roduct UIN: NBHHLIP22156V032122




1. Accident Death (AD)
What is covered:
If the Injury due to Accident solely and directly results in the Insured Person's death within 365 
days from the occurrence of the Accident, We will make payment of Personal Accident Cover Sum 
Insured specified in the Policy Schedule. If a claim is made under this optional benefit, the 
coverage for that Insured Person under the Policy shall immediately and automatically cease. Any 
claim incurred before death of such Insured person shall be admissible subject to terms and 
conditions under this Policy.

2. Accident Permanent Total Disability (APTD)
What is covered:
If the Injury due to Accident solely and directly results in the Permanent Total Disability of the 
Insured Person which means that the Injury results in one or more of the following conditions 
within 365 days from the occurrence of an Accident, We will make payment of 125% of the Personal 
Accident Cover Sum Insured as specified in the Policy Schedule.

1. Loss of use of limbs or sight
The Insured Person suffers from total and irrecoverable loss of:
1. The use of two limbs (including paraplegia and hemiplegia) OR
2. The sight in both eyes OR
3. The use of one limb and the sight in one eye

2. Loss of independent living
The Insured Person is permanently unable to perform independently three or more of the following 
six activities of daily living.
1. Washing: the ability to maintain an adequate level of cleanliness and personal hygiene.
2. Dressing: the ability to put on and take off all necessary garments, artificial limbs or other 
surgical appliances that are medically necessary.
3. Feeding: the ability to transfer food from a plate or bowl to the mouth once food has been 
prepared and made available.
4. Toileting: the ability to manage bowel and bladder function, maintaining an adequate and 
socially acceptable level of hygiene.
5. Mobility: the ability to move indoors from room to room on level surfaces at the normal place of 
residence.
6. Transferring: the ability to move from a lying position in a bed to a sitting position in an 
upright chair or wheel chair and vice versa.

Conditions:
1. The Permanent Total Disability is proved through a disability certificate issued by a Medical 
Board duly constituted by the Central and/or the State Government; and
2. We will admit a claim under this optional benefit only if the Permanent Total Disability 
continues for a period of at least 6 continuous calendar months from the commencement of the 
Permanent Total Disability unless
it is irreversible, such as in case of amputation/loss of limbs etc; and
3. If the Insured Person dies before a claim has been admitted under this optional benefit, no 
amount will be payable under this optional benefit, however We will consider the claim under 
Section 4.1(1) (Accident Death) subject to terms and conditions mentioned therein; and
4. We will not make payment under Accident Permanent Total Disability more than once in the Insured 
Person's lifetime for any and all Policy Periods.
5. 5.    If a claim under this optional benefit is admitted, then coverage for the Insured Person 
will immediately and automatically cease under Section 4.1(Personal Accident Cover) and this 
optional benefit shall not be applied in respect of that Insured Person on any Renewal thereafter. 
However, other applicable benefits can be Renewed in respect of the Insured Person.

3. Accident Permanent Partial Disability (APPD)
What is covered:
If the Injury due to Accident solely and directly results in the Permanent Partial Disability of 
the Insured Person which is of the nature specified in the table below within 365 days from the 
occurrence of such Accident, We will make payment under this optional benefit in accordance with 
the table below:

Conditions:
1. The Permanent Partial Disability is proved through a disability certificate issued by a Medical 
Board duly constituted by the Central and/or the State Government; and
2.  We will admit a claim under this optional benefit only if the Permanent Partial Disability 
continues for a period of at least 6 continuous calendar months from the commencement of the 
Permanent Partial Disability, unless it is irreversible; and
3. If the Insured Person dies before a claim has been admitted under this optional benefit, no 
amount will be payable under this optional benefit, however We will consider the claim under 
Section 4.1(1) (Accident Death) subject to the terms and conditions mentioned therein.
4. If a claim under this optional benefit has been admitted, then no further claim in respect of 
the same condition will be admitted under this optional benefit.
5. If a claim under this optional benefit is paid and the entire Personal Accident Sum Insured 
specified in the Policy Schedule does not get utilized, then the balance Personal Accident Cover 
Sum Insured shall be available for further claims under Section 4.1 (Personal Accident Cover) until 
the entire Personal Accident Cover Sum Insured is consumed. The Personal Accident Cover Sum Insured 
specified in the first Policy Schedule shall be a lifetime limit for the Insured Person and once 
this limit is exhausted, coverage for the Insured Person will immediately and automatically cease 
under Section 4.1 (Personal Accident Cover) and this optional benefit shall not be applied in 
respect of that Insured Person on any Renewal thereafter. However, other applicable benefits can be 
Renewed in respect of the Insured Person


Product Name: Health Recharge I roduct UIN: NBHHLIP22156V032122





S.
No.
Permanent Partial Disability Grid
Nature of Disability                     % of Personal Accident
Cover Sum Insured payable

1   Loss or total and permanent loss of use of both the hands from the wrist joint
2   Loss or total and permanent loss of use of both feet from the ankle joint
3   Loss or total and permanent loss of use of one hand from the wrist joint and of one foot from 
the ankle joint
4   Loss or total and permanent loss of use of one hand from the wrist joint and total and 
permanent loss of sight in one eye
5   Loss or total and permanent loss of use of one foot from the ankle joint and total and 
permanent loss of sight in one eye
6   Total and permanent loss of speech and hearing in both ears
7   Total and permanent loss of hearing in both ears
8   Loss or total and permanent loss of use of one hand from wrist joint
9   Loss or total and permanent loss of use of one foot from ankle joint
10  Total and permanent loss of sight in one eye
11  Total and permanent loss of speech
12  Permanent total loss of use of four fingers and thumb of either hand
13  Permanent total loss of use of four fingers of either hand
14  Uniplegia
15  Permanent total loss of use of one thumb of either hand
a. Both joints
b. One joint
16  Permanent total loss of use of fingers of either hand
a. Three joints
b. Two joints
c. One joint
17  Permanent total loss of use of toes of either foot
a. All toes- one foot
b. Great toe- both joints
c. Great toe- one joint
d. Other than great toe, one toe
100%
100%
100%

100%

100%

100%
50%
50%
50%
50%
50%
40%
35%
25%

25%
10%

10%
8%
5%

20%
5°o
2%
1%



II. Critical Illness Cover
What is covered:
This optional benefit is available either to the Primary Insured Person or Primary Insured Person 
along with his/her spouse, which is specified in the Policy Schedule.

If the Insured Person covered under this optional benefit is diagnosed for the first time with any 
of the following listed Critical Illnesses or if any of the following Critical Illnesses occurs or 
manifests itself in the Insured Person during the Policy Period for the first time, We will pay the 
Critical Illness Sum Insured specified in the Policy Schedule provided that the Insured Person 
survives the Survival Period of 30 days from the diagnosis of the Critical Illness during the 
Policy Period.

1. Cancer of Specified Severity
I.  A malignant tumor characterized by the uncontrolled
growth and spread of malignant cells with invasion and destruction of normal tissues. This 
diagnosis must be supported by histological evidence of malignancy. The term cancer includes 
leukemia, lymphoma and sarcoma. The following are excluded —
i.  All tumors which are histologically described as carcinoma in situ, benign, pre-malignant, 
borderline malignant, low malignant potential, neoplasm of unknown behaviour, or non-invasive, 
including but not limited to: Carcinoma in situ of breasts, Cervical dysplasia CIN-1, CIN -2 and 
CIN-3.
Any non-melanoma skin carcinoma unless there is evidence of metastases to lymph nodes or beyond; 
Malignant melanoma that has not caused invasion beyond the epidermis;
IV. All tumors of the prostate unless histologically classified as having a Gleason score greater 
than


Product Name: Health Recharge I roduct UIN: NBHHLIP22156V032122




6 or having progressed to at least clinical TNM classification T2N0M0
v.  All Thyroid cancers histologically classified as T1N0M0 (TNM Classification) or below;
vi. Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia less than RAI stage 3
vii. Non-invasive papillary cancer of the bladder histologically described as TaNOMO or of a lesser 
classification,
viii. All Gastro-Intestinal Stromal Tumors histologically classified as T1N0M0 (TNM Classification) 
or be low and with mitotic count of less than or equal to 5/50 HPFs;
ix. All tumors in the presence of HIV infection.

2. Myocardial Infarction
(First Heart Attack of specific severity)
I.  The first occurrence of heart attack or myocardial infarction, which means the death of a 
portion of the heart muscle as a result of inadequate blood supply to the relevant area. The 
diagnosis for Myocardial Infarction should be evidenced by all of the following criteria:
A history of typical clinical symptoms consistent with the diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction 
(For e.g. typical chest pain)
New characteristic electrocardiogram changes Elevation of infarction specific enzymes, Troponins or 
other specific biochemical markers.
The following are excluded:
Other acute Coronary Syndromes Any type of angina pectoris
A rise in cardiac biomarkers or Troponin T or I in absence of overt ischemic heart disease OR 
following an intra-arterial cardiac procedure.

3. Open Chest CABG
actual undergoing of heart surgery to correct blockage or narrowing in one or more coronary 
artery(s), by coronary artery bypass grafting done via a sternotomy (cutting through the breast 
bone) or minimally invasive keyhole coronary artery bypass procedures. The diagnosis must be 
supported by a coronary angiography and the realization of surgery has to be confirmed by a 
cardiologist.
The following are excluded:
Angioplasty  and/or  any  other  intra-arterial procedures

4. Open Heart Replacement or Repair of Heart Valves
1.  The actual undergoing of open-heart valve surgery is to replace or repair one or more heart 
valves, as a consequence of defects in, abnormalities of, or disease affected cardiac valve(s). The 
diagnosis of the valve abnormality must be supported by an echocardiography and the realization of 
surgery has to be confirmed by a specialist medical practitioner. Catheter based techniques 
including but not limited to, balloon valvotomy/valvuloplasty are excluded.

5. Coma of Specified Severity
A state of unconsciousness with no reaction or response to external stimuli or internal needs. This 
diagnosis must be supported by evidence of all of the following:
i.  no response to external stimuli continuously for at least 96 hours;
life support measures are necessary to sustain life; and
iii. Permanent neurological deficit which must be assessed at least 30 days after the onset of the 
coma.
The condition has to be confirmed by a specialist medical practitioner. Coma resulting directly 
from alcohol or drug abuse is excluded

6. Kidney Failure requiring Regular Dialysis
End stage renal disease presenting as chronic irreversible failure of both kidneys to function, as 
a result of which either regular renal dialysis (haemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis) is 
instituted or renal transplantation is carried out. Diagnosis has to be confirmed by a specialist 
medical practitioner

7. Stroke resulting in Permanent Symptoms
I.  Any cerebrovascular incident producing permanent neurological sequelae. This includes 
infarction of brain tissue, thrombosis in an intracranial vessel, haemorrhage and embolisation from 
an extracranial source. Diagnosis has to be confirmed by a specialist medical practitioner and 
evidenced by typical clinical symptoms as well as typical findings in CT Scan or MRI of the brain. 
Evidence of permanent neurological deficit lasting for at least 3 months has to be produced.
The following are excluded: Transient ischemic attacks (TIA) Traumatic injury of the brain
Vascular disease affecting only the eye or optic nerve or vestibular functions.

8. Major Organ /Bone Marrow Transplant
The actual undergoing of a transplant of:
One of the following human organs: heart, lung, liver, kidney, pancreas, that resulted from 
irreversible end-stage failure of the relevant organ, or
ii. Human bone marrow using haematopoietic stem cells. The undergoing of a transplant has to be 
confirmed by a specialist medical practitioner.

The following are excluded: Other stem-cell transplants
Where only islets of langerhans are transplanted

9. Permanent Paralysis of Limbs
Total and irreversible loss of use of two or more limbs as a result of injury or disease of the 
brain or spinal cord. A specialist medical practitioner must be of the opinion that the paralysis 
will be permanent with no hope of recovery and must be present for more than 3 months.

10. Motor Neuron Disease with Permanent Symptoms
Motor neuron disease diagnosed by a specialist medical practitioner as spinal muscular atrophy, 
progressive bulbar palsy, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis or primary lateral sclerosis. There must be 
progressive degeneration of corticospinal tracts and anterior horn cells or bulbar efferent 
neurons. There must be current significant


Product Name: Health Recharge I roduct UIN: NBHHLIP22156V032122




and permanent functional neurological impairment with objective evidence of motor dysfunction that 
has persisted for a continuous period of at least 3 months.

11. Multiple Sclerosis with Persisting Symptoms
I.  The unequivocal diagnosis of Definite Multiple Sclerosis confirmed and evidenced by all of the 
following:
investigations including typical MRI findings which unequivocally confirm the diagnosis to be 
multiple sclerosis and
there must be current clinical impairment of motor or sensory function, which must have persisted 
for a continuous period of at least 6 months.
II. Other causes of neurological damage such as SLE and HIV are excluded.

12. Deafness
I.  Total and irreversible loss of hearing in both ears as a result of illness or accident. This 
diagnosis must be supported by pure tone audiogram test and certified by an Ear, Nose and Throat 
(ENT) specialist. Total means “the loss of hearing to the extent that the loss is greater than 
90decibels across all frequencies of hearing” in both ears.

13. End Stage Lung Failure
I.  End stage lung disease, causing chronic respiratory failure, as confirmed and evidenced by all 
of the following:
i.  FEV1 test results consistently less than 1 litre measured on 3 occasions 3 months apart; and
ii. Requiring continuous permanent supplementary oxygen therapy for hypoxemia; and
iii. Arterial blood gas analysis with partial oxygen pressure of 55mmHg or less (PaO2 < 55mmHg); 
and
iv. Dyspnea at rest.

14. End Stage Liver Failure
Permanent and irreversible failure of liver function that has resulted in all three of the 
following:
Permanent jaundice; and Ascites; and
Hepatic encephalopathy.
II. Liver failure secondary to drug or alcohol abuse is excluded.

15. Loss of Speech
Total and irrecoverable loss of the ability to speak as a result of injury or disease to the vocal 
cords. The inability to speak must be established for a continuous period of 12 months. This 
diagnosis must be supported by medical evidence furnished by an Ear, Nose, Throat (ENT) specialist.
All psychiatric related causes are excluded

16. Third Degree Burns
There must be third-degree burns with scarring that cover at least 20% of the body's surface area. 
The diagnosis must confirm the total area involved using standardized, clinically accepted, body 
surface area charts covering 20% of the body surface area.
17. Fulminant Viral Hepatitis
A sub-massive to massive necrosis of the liver by any virus, leading precipitously to liver 
failure.
This diagnosis must be supported by all of the following: rapid decreasing of liver size; and
ii. necrosis involving entire lobules, leaving only a collapsed reticular framework; and
rapid deterioration of liver function tests; and
iv. deepening jaundice; and
v. hepatic encephalopathy.
Acute Hepatitis infection or carrier status alone does not meet the diagnostic criteria

18. Aplastic Anemia
Aplastic Anemia is chronic persistent bone marrow failure. A certified hematologist must make the 
diagnosis of severe irreversible aplastic anemia. There must be permanent bone marrow failure 
resulting in bone marrow cellularity of less than 25% and there must be two of the following:
Absolute neutrophil count of less than 500/mm* Platelets count less than 20,000/mm³ Reticulocyte 
count of less than 20,000/mmc
The Insured Person must be receiving treatment for more than 3 consecutive months with frequent 
blood product transfusions, bone marrow stimulating agents, or immunosuppressive agents or the 
Insured Person has received a bone marrow or cord blood stem cell transplant. Temporary or 
reversible Aplastic Anemia is excluded and not covered under this Policy

19. Muscular Dystrophy
I.  Muscular Dystrophy is a disease of the muscle causing progressive and permanent weakening of 
certain muscle groups. The diagnosis of Muscular Dystrophy must be made by a consultant 
neurologist, and confirmed with the appropriate laboratory, biochemical, histological, and 
electromyography evidence. The disease must result in the permanent inability of the Insured Person 
to perform (whether aided or unaided) at least three (3) of the six (6)"Activities of Daily 
Living”.
Activities of Daily Living are defined as:
a. Washing : the ability to maintain an adequate level of cleanliness and personal hygiene
b. Dressing : the ability to put on and take off all necessary garments, artificial limbs or other 
surgical appliances that are Medically Necessary
c.  Feeding : the ability to transfer food from a plate or bowl to the mouth once food has been 
prepared and made available
d. Toileting : the ability to manage bowel and bladder function, maintaining an adequate and 
socially acceptable level of hygiene
e. Mobility : the ability to move indoors from room to room on level surfaces at the normal place 
of residence
f.  Transferring: the ability to move from a lying position in a bed to a sitting position in an 
upright chair or wheel chair and vice versa


Product Name: Health Recharge I roduct UIN: NBHHLIP22156V032122




20. Bacterial Meningitis
1.  Bacterial meningitis is a bacterial infection of the meninges of the brain causing brain 
dysfunction. There must be an unequivocal diagnosis by a consultant physician of bacterial 
meningitis that must be proven on analysis and culture of the cerebrospinal fluid. There must also 
be permanent objective neurological deficit
b. This exclusion shall not, however, apply if the Insured Person has continuous coverage for more 
than twelve months
c. The within referred waiting period is made applicable to the enhanced Sum Insured in the event 
of granting higher Sum Insured subsequently.

that is present on physical examination at least 3 months after the diagnosis of the meningitis 
infection.

Conditions applicable to ‘Critical Illness cover’:
We will not make payment under Section 4.2 (Critical Illness Cover) more than once in the Insured 
Person's lifetime for any and all Policy Periods
The diagnosis of a Critical Illness must be verified in writing by a Medical Practitioner.
The WaiGng Periods specified below shall be applicable to the Insured Person and claims shall be 
assessed accordingly. On Renewal, if the Critical Illness Cover Sum Insured specified in the Policy 
Schedule is enhanced, the Waiting Periods would apply afresh to the extent of the increase in 
benefit amount limit, subject to Underwriting Guidelines and in accordance with the existing 
guidelines of the IRDAI.

We shall not be liable to make any payment under this Policy for covered listed Critical Illnesses 
directly or indirectly caused by, based on, arising out of or howsoever attributable to any of the 
following:
IV.








V.









Vii.
If the Insured Person is diagnosed / undergoes a Surgical Procedure or any medical condition occurs 
falling under the definition of Critical Illness as specified above that may result in a claim, 
then We shall be given written notice immediately and in any event within 7 days of the aforesaid 
Illness/ condition/ Surgical Procedure.
We shall not be liable to make any payment under this optional benefit if the Insured Person does 
not survive the Survival Period.
If diagnosis of the Critical Illness takes place on or before the Policy expiry date specified in 
the Policy Schedule, but the Survival Period expires after the Policy expiry date, such claims 
would be admissible if the Insured Person survives the Survival Period. In the event of death of 
the Insured Person post the Survival Period, the immediate family member/ relative of the Insured 
Person claiming on Insured Person's behalf must inform Us in writing immediately and send a copy of 
all the required documents to prove the cause of death within 30 days of the death. We upon 
acceptance of the admission of claim under the Policy shall make payment to the Nominee/legal heirs 
of the Insured Person.

i.  Pre-existing Diseases:
a.  All the listed Critical Illnesses under the optional benefit, which occurs or manifests itself 
as a result of any Pre-existing Disease (PED) and its direct complications shall be excluded until 
the expiry of 48 months of continuous coverage after the date of inception of the first Policy with 
Us.
b. In case of enhancement of Sum Insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of Sum 
Insured increase.
c. If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break as defined under the portability 
norms of the extant IRDAI (Health Insurance) regulations, then waiting period for the same would be 
reduced to the extent of prior coverage.
d. Coverage under this optional benefit after the expiry of 48 months for any Pre-existing Disease 
is subject to the same being declared at the time of application and accepted by Us.

Pre-existing Disease waiting period shall be applicable only if the pre-existing medical condition 
is the direct cause of any Critical Illness and confirmed by the Medical Practitioner.

ii. 90-day waiting period:
a. All the listed Critical Illnesses under the optional benefit, which occurs or manifests itself 
within 90 days from the first Policy commencement date shall be excluded except claims arising due 
to an Accident, provided the same are covered.
Viil. If We have admitted a claim under this optional benefit for an Insured Person in any Policy 
Year, this optional benefit shall not be renewed in respect of that Insured Person for any 
subsequent Policy Year, but the cover for this optional benefit will be renewable for other Insured 
Persons.

Modification in Room Rent
If this optional benefit is in force under the Policy, then the maximum eligibility for a room 
category in case of Hospitalization of the Insured Person payable by Us will be limited to stay in 
a Single Private Room.

5. Claim Cost Sharing

The following claim cost sharing options shall apply under the Policy if specified in the Policy 
Schedule and shall apply to all Insured Persons. These claim cost sharing options can be selected 
only at the time of issuance of the First Policy and cannot be altered at Renewal by You unless as 
specified below under Section 5.1.

Annual Aggregate Deductible
The Insured Person shall bear on his/her own account an amount equal to the Deductible specified in 
the Policy Schedule for all admissible claim amounts We assess to be payable by Us in respect of 
all claims made by that Insured Person in a Policy Year. It is agreed that Our liability to make 
payment under the Policy in respect of any claim made in that Policy Year will only commence once 
the Deductible has been exhausted.


Product Name: Health Recharge I roduct UIN: NBHHLIP22156V032122




It is further agreed that:
a. Deductible will not apply to any claim under Section 3.9 (e-Consultation), Section 4.1 (Personal 
Accident Cover) and Section 4.2 (Critical Illness Cover).
b. Deductible opGon can be altered without any medical underwriting or pre policy medical check-up, 
subject to the following conditions:
This option can be availed only once in a lifetime and at the time of Renewal, post completion of 5 
Policy Years; and
The eldest member's Age in the Policy has not crossed 50 years.
In case of waiver of Deductible, We will offer an option, at the time of renewal, to opt for an 
equivalent indemnity health insurance Policy (without any Deductible) offered by Us for same Sum 
Insured. Your current Policy will lapse in case You exercise the option of waiver of Deductible.

6. Exclusions
6.1. Standard Exclusions

I.  Pre-existing Diseases (Code-Exclo1):
a. Expenses related to the treatment of a Pre-existing Disease (PED) and its direct complications 
shall be excluded until the expiry of 36 months of continuous coverage after the date of inception 
of the first Policy with Us.
b. In case of enhancement of Sum Insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of Sum 
Insured increase.
c. If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break as defined under the portability 
norms of the extant IRDAI (Health Insurance) regulations, then waiting period for the same would be 
reduced to the extent of prior coverage.
d. Coverage under the Policy after the expiry of 36 months for any Pre-existing Disease is subject 
to the same being declared at the time of application and accepted by Us.

II. Specified disease/procedure waiting period- Code- Excl02
a. Expenses related to the treatment of the listed conditions, surgeries/treatments shall be 
excluded until the expiry of 24 months of continuous coverage after the date of inception of the 
first Policy with us. This exclusion shall not be applicable for claims arising due to an Accident 
(covered from day 1 or Cancer (covered after 30-day waiting period).
b. In case of enhancement of Sum Insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of Sum 
Insured increase.
c. If any of the specified disease/procedure falls under the waiting period specified for 
pre-Existing diseases, then the longer of the two waiting periods shall apply.
d. The waiting period for listed conditions shall apply even if contracted after the Policy or 
declared and accepted without a specific exclusion.
e. If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break as defined under the applicable 
norms on portability stipulated by IRDAI then waiting period for the same would be reduced to the 
extent of prior coverage.
f.  List of specific diseases/procedures:
a. Pancreatitis and stones in biliary and urinary system
b. Cataract, glaucoma and other disorders of lens,
disorders of retina
C.  Hyperplasia of prostate, hydrocele and spermatocele
d. Abnormal utero-vaginal bleeding, female genital prolapse,  endometriosis/adenomyosis, fibroids, 
PCOD, or any condition requiring dilation and curettage or hysterectomy
e.  Hemorrhoids, fissure or fistula or abscess of anal and rectal region
f.  Hernia of all sites,
g. Osteoarthritis, systemic connective tissue disorders, dorsopathies,  spondylopathies,  
inflammatory polyarthropathies, arthrosis such as RA, gout, intervertebral disc disorders, 
arthroscopic surgeries for ligament repair
h. Chronic kidney disease and failure Varicose veins of lower extremities
j.  All internal or external benign or in situ neoplasms/ tumours, cyst, sinus, polyp, nodules, 
swelling, mass or lump
k. Ulcer, erosion and varices of gastro intestinal tract Surgical treatment for diseases of middle 
ear and mastoid (including otitis media, cholesteatoma, perforation of tympanic membrane), Tonsils 
and adenoids, nasal septum and nasal sinuses
m. Internal Congenital Anomaly
n. Surgery of Genito-urinary system unless necessitated by malignancy
0. Spinal disorders

III. 30-day waiting period (Code- ExcI03):
a. Expenses related to the treatment of any Illness within 30 days from the first Policy 
commencement date shall be excluded except claims arising due to an Accident, provided the same are 
covered.
b. This exclusion shall not, however, apply if the Insured Person has continuous coverage for more 
than twelve months
c. The within referred waiting period is made applicable to the enhanced Sum Insured in the event 
of granting higher Sum Insured subsequently.

Note: Exc01, ExcI02, ExcI03 shall not apply to Section 3.9 (e-Consultation), Section 4.1 (Personal 
Accident Cover) and Section 4.2 (Critical Illness Cover).

IV. Investigation & Evaluation (Code-Exclo4)
a. Expenses related to any admission primarily for diagnostics and evaluation purposes only are 
excluded.
b. Any diagnostic expenses which are not related or not incidental to the current diagnosis and 
treatment are excluded.

V. Rest Cure, rehabilitation and respite care (Code-Exclo5) Expenses related to any admission 
primarily for enforced bed rest and not for receiving treatment. This also includes:
a.  Custodial care either at home or in a nursing facility for personal care such as help with 
activities of daily living such as bathing, dressing, moving around either by skilled nurses or 
assistant or non-skilled persons.
b. Any services for people who are terminally ill to address physical, social, emotional and 
spiritual needs.


Product Name: Health Recharge I roduct UIN: NBHHLIP22156V032122




VI. Obesity/ Weight Control (Code-Exclo6)
Expenses related to the surgical treatment of obesity that does not fulfil all the below 
conditions:
a. Surgery to be conducted is upon the advice of the Doctor.
b. The surgery/Procedure conducted should be supported by clinical protocols.
c.  The member has to be 18 years of age or older and;
d. Body Mass Index (BMI);
greater than or equal to 40 or
greater than or equal to 35 in conjunction with any of the following severe co-morbidities 
following failure of less invasive methods of weight loss:
1. Obesity-related cardiomyopathy
2. Coronary heart disease
3. Severe Sleep Apnea
4. Uncontrolled Type2 Diabetes

VII. Change-of-Gender treatments (Code-Exclo7)
Expenses related to any treatment, including surgical management, to change characteristics of the 
body to those of the opposite sex.

VIII. Cosmetic or plastic Surgery (Code-Exclo8)
Expenses for cosmetic or plastic surgery or any treatment to change appearance unless for 
reconstruction following an Accident, Burn(s) or Cancer or as part of medically necessary treatment 
to remove a direct and immediate health risk to the insured. For this to be considered a medical 
necessity, it must be certified by the attending Medical Practitioner.

IX. Hazardous or Adventure sports (Code-Exclo9)
Expenses related to any treatment necessitated due to participation as a professional in hazardous 
or adventure sports, including but not limited to, para-jumping, rock climbing, mountaineering, 
rafting, motor racing, horse racing or scuba diving, hand gliding, sky diving, deep-sea diving.

X. Breach of law (Code-Excl1o)
Expenses for treatment directly arising from or consequent upon any Insured Person committing or 
attempting to commit a breach of law with criminal intent.

XI. Excluded Providers (Code-Exclll)
Expenses incurred towards treatment in any Hospital or by any Medical Practitioner or any other 
provider specifically excluded by Us and disclosed in Our website / notified to the Policyholders 
are not admissible. However, in case of life threatening situations following an Accident, expenses 
up to the stage of stabilization are payable but not the complete claim.

XII. Treatment for, alcoholism, drug or substance abuse or any addictive condition and consequences 
thereof. (Code-Excl12)

XIII. Treatments received in heath hydros, nature cure clinics, spas or similar establishments or 
private beds registered as a nursing home attached to such establishments or where admission is 
arranged wholly or partly for domestic reasons. (Code-Excl13)

XIV. Dietary supplements and substances that can be purchased without prescription, including but 
not limited to vitamins,
minerals and organic substances unless prescribed by a Medical Practitioner as part of 
Hospitalization claim or Day Care procedure (Code-Excl14)

XV. Refractive Error (Code-Excl15)
Expenses related to the treatment for correction of eye sight due to refractive error less than 7.5 
dioptres.

XVI. Unproven Treatments (Code-Excl16)
Expenses related to any unproven treatment, services and supplies for or in connection with any 
treatment. Unproven treatments are treatments, procedures or supplies that lack significant medical 
documentation to support their effectiveness.

XVII.Birth control, Sterility and Infertility (Code-Excl17)
Expenses related to Birth Control, sterility and infernlity. This includes:
a. Any type of contraception, sterilization
b. Assisted  Reproduction  services  including  artificial insemination and advanced reproductive 
technologies such as IVF, ZIFT, GIFT, ICSI
c. Gestational Surrogacy
d. Reversal of sterilization

XVIII. Maternity Expenses (Code-Excl18)
a. Medical treatment expenses traceable to childbirth (including complicated deliveries and 
caesarean sections incurred during Hospitalization) except ectopic pregnancy;
b. Expenses towards miscarriage (unless due to an Accident) and lawful medical termination of 
pregnancy during the Policy Period.

6.2. Specific Exclusions
Personal Waiting Periods:
Conditions specified for an Insured Person under Personal Waiting Period in the Policy Schedule 
will be subject to a Waiting Period of 24 months from the inception of the First Policy with Us for 
that Insured Person and will be covered from the commencement of the third Policy Year for that 
Insured Person as long as the Insured Person has been insured continuously under the Policy without 
any break.

Charges related to a Hospital stay not expressly mentioned as being covered. This will include 
charges for RMO charges , surcharges and service charges levied by the Hospital.

Circumcision:
Circumcision unless necessary for the treatment of a disease or necessitated by an Accident.

IV. Conflict & Disaster:
Treatment for any Injury or Illness resulting directly or indirectly from nuclear, radiological 
emissions, war or war like situations (whether war is declared or not), rebellion (act of armed 
resistance to an established government or leader), acts of terrorism.

V. External Congenital Anomaly:
Screening, counseling or treatment related to external Congenital Anomaly.


Product Name: Health Recharge I roduct UIN: NBHHLIP22156V032122




VI. Dental/oral treatment:
Treatment, procedures and preventive, diagnostic, restorative, cosmetic services related to 
disease, disorder and conditions related to natural teeth and gingiva except if required by an 
Insured Person while Hospitalized due to an Accident.

VII. Hormone Replacement Therapy:
Treatment for any condition / illness which requires hormone replacement therapy.

VIII. Multifocal Lens and ambulatory devices such as walkers, crutches, splints, stockings of any 
kind and also any medical equipment which is subsequently used at home.

IX. Sexually transmitted Infections & diseases (other than HIV / AIDS):
Screening, prevenGon and treatment for sexually related infection or disease (other than HIV / 
AIDS).

X. Sleep disorders:
Treatment for any conditions related to disturbance of normal sleep patterns or behaviors.

XI. Any treatment or medical services received outside the geographical limits of India.

XII. Any expenses incurred on OPD treatment

XIII. Unrecognized Physician or Hospital:
a.  Treatment or Medical Advice  provided by a Medical Practitioner not recognized by the Medical 
Council of India or by Central Council of Indian Medicine or by Central council of Homeopathy.
b. Treatment provided by anyone with the same residence as an Insured Person or who is a member of 
the Insured Person's immediate family or relatives.
c. Treatment provided by Hospital or health facility that is not recognized by the relevant 
authorities in India.


XIV. Permanent Exclusions for Personal Accident Cover
We shall not be liable to make any payment under any benefits under Section 4.1 (Personal Accident 
Cover) if the claim is attributable to, or based on, or arises out of, or is directly or indirectly 
connected to any of the following:
1. Suicide or self inflicted Injury, whether the Insured Person is medically sane or insane.
2.  Treatment for any Injury or Illness resulting directly or indirectly from nuclear, radiological 
emissions, war or war like situations (whether war is declared or not), rebellion (act of armed 
resistance to an established government or leader), acts of terrorism.
3. Service in the armed forces, or any police organization, of any country at war or at peace or 
service in any force of an international body or participation in any of the naval, military or air 
force operation during peace time.
4. Any change of profession after inception of the Policy or any Renewal which results in the 
enhancement of Our risk, if not accepted and endorsed by Us on the Policy Schedule.
5. Committing an assault, a criminal offence or any breach of law with criminal intent.
6. Taking or absorbing, accidentally or otherwise, any intoxicating liquor, drug, narcotic, 
medicine, sedative or poison, except as prescribed by a Medical Practitioner other than the 
Policyholder or an Insured Person.
7.  Participation in aviation/marine activities (including crew) other than as a passenger in an 
aircraft/water craft that is authorized by the relevant regulations to carry such passengers 
between established airports or ports.
8.  Engaging in or taking part in professional/adventure sports or any hazardous pursuits, speed 
contest or racing of any kind (other than on foot), bungee jumping, parasailing, ballooning, 
parachuting, skydiving, paragliding, hang gliding, mountain or rock climbing necessitating the use 
of guides or ropes, potholing, abseiling, deep sea diving, polo, snow and ice sports, hunting.
9. Body or mental infirmity or any Illness except where such condition arises directly as a result 
of an Accident during the Policy Period. However this exclusion is not applicable to claims made 
under Section 4.1(3) (Permanent Partial Disability).

7. General Terms and Clauses
7.1. Standard General Terms and Clauses

I.  Free Look Period
The Free Look Period shall be applicable on new individual health insurance policies and not on 
renewals or at the time of porting/ migrating the policy.

The insured person shall be allowed free look period of fifteen days (thirty days for policies with 
a term of 3 years, if sold through distance marketing) from date of receipt of the policy document 
to review the terms and conditions of the policy, and to return the same if not acceptable.

If the insured has not made any claim during the Free Look Period, the insured shall be entitled to
a. a refund of the premium paid less any expenses incurred by the Company on medical examination of 
the insured person and the stamp duty charges

II. Cancellation
7 otherwise, no refunds of premium shall be made in respect of Cancellation where, any claim has 
been admitted or has been lodged or any benefit has been availed by the insured person under the 
policy.







Product Name: Health Recharge I roduct UIN: NBHHLIP22156V032122



1 year                      2 years                     3 years

Policy in-force up to  Refund Premium (%) Up to 30 days    75%
31 to 90 days    50%
91 to 180 days    25%
exceeding 180 days  0%
Policy in-force up to Up to 30 days
31 to 90 days
91 to 180 days
181 to 365 days
366 to 455 days
456 to 545 days
Exceeding 545 days
Refund Premium (%) 87.5%
75%
62.5%
50%
25%
12%
0%
Policy in-force up to  Refund Premium (%) Up to 30 days    90%
31 to 90 days    87.5%
91 to 180 days    75%
181 to 365 days   60%
366 to 455 days   50%
456 to 545 days   25%
545 to 720 days   12%
Exceeding 720 days  0%


II.  The Company may cancel the policy at any time on grounds of misrepresentation non-disclosure 
of material facts, fraud by the insured person by giving 15 days' written notice. There would be no 
refund of premium on cancellation on grounds of misrepresentation, non- disclosure of material 
facts or fraud.

III. Renewal of Policy
The policy shall ordinarily be renewable except on grounds of fraud, misrepresentation by the 
insured person.
I.  The Company shall endeavor to give notice for renewal. However, the Company is not under 
obligation to give any notice for renewal.
Renewal shall not be denied on the ground that the insured person had made a claim or claims in the 
preceding policy years.
Request for renewal along with requisite premium shall be received by the Company before the end of 
the policy period.
IV. At the end of the policy period, the policy shall terminate and can be renewed within the Grace 
Period of 30 days to maintain continuity of benefits without break in policy. Coverage is not 
available during the grace period.
V. No loading shall apply on renewals based on individual claims experience

IV. Nomination
The policyholder is required at the inception of the policy to make a nomination for the purpose of 
payment of claims under the policy in the event of death of the policyholder. Any change of 
nomination shall be communicated to the company in wrifing and such change shall be effective only 
when an endorsement on the policy is made. In the event of death of the policyholder, the Company 
will pay the nominee {as named in the Policy Schedule/Policy Certificate/Endorsement (if any)) and 
in case there is no subsisting nominee, to the legal heirs or legal representatives of the 
policyholder whose discharge shall be treated as full and final discharge of its liability under 
the policy.

V. Fraud
If any claim made by the insured person, is in any respect fraudulent, or if any false statement, 
or declaration is made or used in support thereof, or if any fraudulent means or devices are used 
by the insured person or anyone acting on his/her
behalf to obtain any benefit under this policy, all benefits under this policy and the premium paid 
shall be forfeited.

Any amount already paid against claims made under this policy but which are found fraudulent later 
shall be repaid by all recipient(s)/policyholder(s), who has made that particular claim, who shall 
be jointly and severally liable for such repayment to the insurer.

For the purpose of this clause, the expression “fraud” means any of the following acts committed by 
the insured person or by his agent or the hospital/doctor/any other party acting on behalf of the 
insured person, with intent to deceive the insurer or to induce the insurer to issue an insurance 
policy:
a) the suggestion, as a fact of that which is not true and which the insured person does not 
believe to be true; b) the active concealment of a fact by the insured person having knowledge or 
belief of the fact; c) any other act fitted to deceive; and d) any such act or omission as the law 
specially declares to be fraudulent

The Company shall not repudiate the claim and / or forfeit the policy benefits on the ground of 
Fraud, if the insured person
/ beneficiary can prove that the misstatement was true to the best of his knowledge and there was 
no deliberate intention to suppress the fact or that such misstatement of or suppression of 
material fact are within the knowledge of the insurer.

VI. Possibility of Revision of Terms of the Policy Including the Premium Rates
The Company, with prior approval of IRDAI, may revise or modify the terms of the policy including 
the premium rates. The insured person shall be notified three months before the changes are 
effected.

VII. Withdrawal of Policy
In the likelihood of this product being withdrawn in future, the Company will intimate the insured 
person about the same 90 days prior to expiry of the policy.

Insured Person will have the option to migrate to similar health insurance product available with 
the Company at the time of renewal with all the accrued continuity benefits such as cumulative 
bonus, waiver of waiting period as per IRDAI guidelines, provided the policy has been maintained 
without a break.



Product Name: Health Recharge I roduct UIN: NBHHLIP22156V032122




VIII. Redressal of Grievances:
a. In case of any grievance the insured person may contact the company through
Website: www.nivabupa.com Toll free: 1860-500-8888
E-mail: customercare@nivabupa.com (Senior citizens may write to us at: 
seniorcitizensupport@nivabupa.com) Fax :  011-3090-2010
Courier: Customer Services Department
Niva Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited D-5, 2nd Floor, Logix Infotech Park
opp. Metro Station, Sector 59, Noida, Uttar Pradesh, 201301

Insured person may also approach the grievance cell at any of the company's branches with the 
details of grievance If Insured person is not satisfied with the redressal of grievance through one 
of the above methods, insured person may contact the grievance officer at Head — Customer Services
Niva Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited D-5, 2nd Floor, Logix Infotech Park
opp. Metro Station, Sector 59, Noida, Uttar Pradesh, 201301 Contact No: 1860-500-8888
Fax No.: 011-3090-2010
Email ID: customercare@nivabupa.com

For updated details of grievance officer, kindly refer the link 
https://www.nivabupa.com/customer-care/health- services/grievance-redressal.aspx

If the Insured person is not satisfied with the above, they can escalate to GRO@nivabupa.com.

b. If Insured person is not satisfied with the redressal of grievance through above methods, the 
insured person may also approach the office of Insurance Ombudsman of the respective area/region 
for redressal of grievance as per Insurance Ombudsman Rules 2017 ( at the addresses given in 
Annexure 1).
c. Grievance may also be lodged at IRDAI Integrated Grievance Management System - https://igms. 
irda.gov. in/

IX. Moratorium Period
After completion of eight continuous years under the Policy no look back to be applied. This period 
of eight years is called as moratorium period. The moratorium would be applicable for the sums 
insured of the first Policy and subsequently completion of 8 continuous years would be applicable 
from date of enhancement of sums insured only on the enhanced limits. After the expiry of 
Moratorium Period no health insurance claim shall be contestable except for proven fraud and 
permanent exclusions specified in the Policy contract. The policies would however be subject to all 
limits, sub limits, co-payments, deductibles as per the Policy contract.

X. Multiple Policies
I.  In case of multiple policies taken by an insured person during a period from one or more 
insurers
to indemnify treatment costs, the insured person shall have the right to require a settlement of 
his/her claim in terms of any of his/her policies. In all such cases the insurer chosen by the 
insured person shall be obliged to settle the claim as long as the claim is within the limits of 
and according to the terms of the chosen policy.
Insured person having multiple policies shall also have the right to prefer claims under this 
policy for the amounts disallowed under any other policy / policies even if the sum insured is not 
exhausted. Then the insurer shall independently settle the claim subject to the terms and 
conditions of this policy.
iii. If the amount to be claimed exceeds the sum insured under a single policy, the insured person 
shall have the right to choose insurer from whom he/she wants to claim the balance amount.
iv. Where an insured person has policies from more than one insurer to cover the same risk on 
indemnity basis, the insured person shall only be indemnified the treatment costs in accordance 
with the terms and condifions of the chosen policy

XI. Condition Precedent to Admission of Liability
The terms and conditions of the policy must be fulfilled by the insured person for the Company to 
make any payment for claim(s) arising under the policy.

XII. Complete Discharge
Any payment to the policyholder, insured person or his/ her nominees or his/ her legal 
representative or assignee or to the Hospital, as the case may be, for any benefit under the policy 
shall be a valid discharge towards payment of claim by the Company to the extent of that amount for 
the particular claim.

XIII. Portability
Portability:
The insured person will have the option to port the policy to other insurers by applying to such 
insurer to port the entire policy along with all the members of the family, if any, at least 45 
days before, but not earlier than 60 days from the policy renewal date as per IRDAI guidelines 
related to portability. If such person is presently covered and has been continuously covered 
without any lapses under any health insurance policy with an Indian General/Health insurer, the 
proposed insured person will get the accrued continuity benefits in waiting periods as per IRDAI 
guidelines on portability

For Detailed Guidelines on portability, kindly refer the link 
https://www.irdai.gov.in/ADMINCMS/cms/wh atsNew_ Layout.aspx?page=PageNo3987&flag=1

XIV. Migration:
The insured person will have the option to migrate the policy to other health insurance 
products/plans offered by the company by applying for migration of the policy atleast 30 days 
before the policy renewal date as per IRDAI guidelines on Migration. If such person is presently 
covered and has been continuously covered without any lapses under any health insurance 
product/plan offered by the company, the insured


Product Name: Health Recharge I roduct UIN: NBHHLIP22156V032122




person will get the accrued continuity benefits in waiting periods as per IRDAI guidelines on 
migration.

For Detailed Guidelines on migration, kindly refer the link https://www.irdai.gov. in/ADM 
INCMS/cms/whatsNew_ Layout.aspx?page=PageNo3987&flag=1

7.2. Specific Terms and Clauses
l.  Automatic Cancellation:
Individual Policy:
The Policy shall automatically terminate in the event of death of the Insured Person.
For Family Floater Policies:
The Policy shall automatically terminate in the event of the death of all the Insured Persons.
Refund:
A refund in accordance with the table in Section 7.1 (II) shall be payable if there is an automatic 
cancellation of the Policy provided that no claim has been made and e-Consultation has not been 
availed under the Policy by or on behalf of any Insured Person. We will pay the refund of premium 
to the Nominee named in the Policy Schedule or Your legal heirs or legal representatives holding a 
valid succession certificate.

II. Loading on Premium
There is no premium loading applicable basis the health status of the Insured under the Policy.

III. Other Renewal Conditions
a. Continuity of benefits on Timely Renewal:
The Renewal premium is payable on or before the due date and in any circumstances before the expiry 
of Grace Period
Renewal premium rates for this Policy may be further altered by Us including in the following 
circumstances:
A. You proposed to add an Insured Person to the Policy
B. You change any coverage provision
Renewal premium will alter based on individual Age. The reference of Age for calculating the 
premium for Family Floater Policies shall be the Age of the eldest Insured Person.

b. Reinstatement:
i.  The Policy shall lapse after the expiration of the Grace Period. If the Policy is not Renewed 
within the Grace Period then We may agree to issue a fresh Policy subject to Our underwriting 
criteria, as per Our Board approved underwriting policy and no continuing benefits shall be 
available from the expired Policy.
We will not pay for any Medical Expenses which are incurred between the date the Policy expires and 
the date immediately before the reinstatement date of Your Policy.
iii. If there is any change in the Insured Person's medical or physical condition, We may add 
exclusions or charge an extra premium from the reinstatement date.
c. Disclosures on Renewal:
You shall make a full disclosure to Us in writing of any material change in the health condition or 
geographical location of any Insured Person at the time of seeking Renewal of this Policy, 
irrespective of any claim arising or made. The terms and condition of the existing Policy will not 
be altered.

d. Renewal for Insured Persons who have achieved Age 26: If any Insured Person who is a child and 
has completed Age 26 years at the time of Renewal, then such Insured Person will have to take a 
separate policy based on Our underwriting guidelines, as per Our Board approved underwriting policy 
as he/she will no longer be eligible to be covered under a Family Floater Policy. In such cases, 
the credit of the Waiting Periods served under the Policy will be passed on to the separate policy 
taken by such Insured Person.

e. Addition of Insured Persons on Renewal:
Where an individual is added to this Policy, either by way of endorsement or at the time of 
Renewal, the Pre-existing Disease clause, exclusions, loading (if any) and Waiting Periods will be 
applicable considering such Policy Year as the first year of the Policy with Us for that Insured 
Person.

f.  Changes to Sum Insured on Renewal:
You may opt for enhancement of Sum Insured at the time of Renewal, subject to underwriting. All 
Waiting Periods shall apply afresh for this enhanced limit from the effective date of such 
enhancement.

IV. Change of Policyholder
a. The Policyholder may be changed only at the time of Renewal. The new Policyholder must be a 
member of the Insured Person's immediate family. Such change would be solely subject to Our 
discretion and payment of premium by You. The Renewed Policy shall be treated as having been 
Renewed without break. The Policyholder may be changed upon request in case of Your death, Your 
emigration from India or in case of Your divorce during the Policy Period.
b. Any alteration in the Policy due to unavoidable circumstances as in case of the Policyholder's 
death, emigration or divorce during the Policy Period should be reported to Us immediately.
c. Renewal of such Policies will be according to terms and conditions of existing Policy.

V. Obligations in case of a minor
If an Insured Person is less than 18 years of Age, You or another adult Insured Person or legal 
guardian (in case of Your and all other adult Insured Person's demise) shall be completely 
responsible for ensuring compliance with all the terms and conditions of this Policy on behalf of 
that minor Insured Person.

VI. Authorization to obtain all pertinent records or information: As a Condition Precedent to the 
payment of benefits, We and/or Our Service Provider shall have the authority to obtain all 
pertinent records or information from any Medical



Product Name: Health Recharge I roduct UIN: NBHHLIP22156V032122




Practitioner, Hospital, clinic, insurer, individual or institution to assess the validity of a 
claim submitted by or on behalf of any Insured Person.

VII. Policy Disputes
Any dispute concerning the interpretation of the terms, conditions, limitations and/or exclusions 
contained herein shall be governed by Indian law and shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the 
Indian Courts.

VIII. Territorial Jurisdiction
All benefits are available in India only and all claims shall be payable in India in Indian Rupees 
only.

IX. Notices
Any notice, direction or instruction given under this Policy shall be in writing and delivered by 
hand, post, or facsimile to:
a. You/the Insured Person at the address specified in the Policy Schedule or at the changed address 
of which We must receive written notice.
b. Us at the following address:
Niva Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited D-5, 2nd Floor, Logix Infotech Park
opp. Metro Station, Sector 59, Noida, Uttar Pradesh, 201301 Fax No.: 011-3090-2010
c. No insurance agents, brokers or other person/entity is authorized to receive any notice on Our 
behalf.
d. In addition, We may send You/the Insured Person other information through electronic and 
telecommunications means with respect to Your Policy from time to time.

X. Alteration to the Policy
This Policy constitutes the complete contract of insurance. Any change in the Policy will only be 
evidenced by a written endorsement signed and stamped by Us. No one except Us can within the 
permission of the IRDAI change or vary this Policy.

XI. Assignment
The Policy can be assigned subject to applicable laws.

XII. Claims Process & Requirements
The fulfillment of the terms and conditions of this Policy (including payment of full premium in 
advance by the due dates mentioned in the Policy Schedule) in so far as they relate to anything to 
be done or complied with by You or any Insured Person, including complying with the following in 
relation to claims, shall be Condition Precedent to admission of Our liability under this Policy.

A. Claims Administration:
On the occurrence or discovery of any Illness or Injury that may give rise to a claim under this 
Policy, the Claims Procedure set out below shall be followed:

a. We advise You to submit all claims related documents, including documents for claims within the 
Deductible amount, once the Deductible limit has been exhausted.
b. We/Our Service Provider must be permitted to inspect the medical and Hospitalization records 
pertaining to
the Insured Person's treatment and to investigate the circumstances pertaining to the claim.
c.  We and Our Service Provider must be given all reasonable co-operation in investigating the 
claim in order to assess Our liability and quantum in respect of the claim.
d. It is hereby agreed and understood that no change in the Medical Record provided under the 
Medical Advice information, by the Hospital or the Insured Person to Us or Our Service Provider 
during the period of Hospitalization or after discharge by any means of request will be accepted by 
Us. Any decision on request for acceptance of such change will be considered on merits where the 
change has been proven to be for reasons beyond the claimant's control.

B. Claims Procedure: On the occurrence or the discovery of any Illness or Injury that may give rise 
to a claim under this Policy, then as a Condition Precedent to Our liability under the Policy the 
following procedure shall be complied with:
a.  For Availing Cashless Facility: Cashless Facility can be availed only at Our Network Providers 
or Service Providers (as applicable). The complete list of Network Providers are available on Our 
website and at Our branches and can also be obtained by contacting Us over the telephone. In order 
to avail Cashless Facility, the following process must be followed:
Process for Obtaining Pre-Authorization
A. For Planned Treatment:
We must be contacted to pre-authorize Cashless Facility for planned treatment at least 72 hours 
prior to the proposed treatment. Once the request for pre- authorisation has been granted, the 
treatment must take place within 15 days of the pre-authorization date at a Network Provider.
B. In Emergencies:
If the Insured Person has been Hospitalized in an Emergency, We must be contacted to pre-authorize 
Cashless Facility within 48 hours of the Insured Person's Hospitalization or before discharge from 
the Hospital, whichever is earlier.

All final authorization requests, if required, shall be sent at least six hours prior to the 
Insured Person's discharge from the Hospital.

Each request for pre-authorization must be accompanied with completely filled and duly signed 
pre-authorization form including all of the following details:
The health card We have issued to the Insured Person at the time of inception of the Policy (if 
available) supported with KYC document;
The Policy Number; Name of the Policyholder;
IV. Name and address of Insured Person in respect of whom the request is being made;
V. Nature of the Illness/Injury and the treatment/surgery required;
VI. Name and address of the attending Medical Practitioner;
VII. Hospital where treatment/surgery is proposed to be


Product Name: Health Recharge I roduct UIN: NBHHLIP22156V032122




taken;
VIII. Date of admission;
IX. First and any subsequent consultation paper / Medical Record since beginning of diagnosis of 
that treatment/ Surgery;
X. Admission note;
XI. Treating Medical Practitioner certificate for Illness / Insured Event history with 
justification of Hospitalization.

If these details are not provided in full or are insufficient for Us to consider the request, We 
will request additional information or documentation in respect of that request.

When We have obtained sufficient details to assess the request, We will issue the authorization 
letter specifying the sanctioned amount, any specific limitation on the claim, applicable 
Deductibles and non-payable items, if applicable, or reject the request for pre-authorisation 
specifying reasons for the rejection.

In case of preauthorization request where chronicity of condition is not established as per 
clinical evidence based information, We may reject the request for preauthorization and ask the 
claimant to claim as Reimbursement. Claim document submission for Reimbursement shall not be deemed 
as an admission of Our liability.

Once the request for pre-authorisation has been granted, the treatment must take place within 15 
days of the pre- authorization date and pre-authorization shall be valid only if all the details of 
the authorized treatment, including dates, Hospital, locations, indications and disease details, 
match with the details of the actual treatment received. For Hospitalization on a Cashless Facility 
basis, We will make the payment of the amount assessed to be due, directly to the Network Provider 
/ Service Provider.

We reserve the right to modify, add or restrict any Network Provider or Service Provider for 
Cashless Facility at Our sole discretion.

Reauthorization
Cashless Facility will be provided subject to re-authorization if requested for either change in 
the line of treatment or in the diagnosis or for any procedure carried out on the incidental 
diagnosis/finding prior to the discharge from the Hospital.

b. For Reimbursement Claims:
For all claims for which Cashless Facility has not been pre- authorized or for which treatment has 
not been taken at a Network Provider/Service Provider or for which Cashless Facility is not 
available, We shall be given written notice of the claim along with the following details within 48 
hours of admission to the Hospital or before discharge from the Hospital, whichever is earlier:
The Policy Number;
Name of the Policyholder;
Name and address of the Insured Person in respect of whom the request is being made;
iv. Nature of Illness or Injury and the treatment/surgery taken;
v. Name and address of the attending Medical Practitioner;
vi. Hospital where treatment/surgery was taken;
vii. Date of admission and date of discharge;
viii. Any other information that may be relevant to the Illness/ Injury/ Hospitalization.

C. Claims Documentation:

For medical claims — Reimbursement Facility:

We shall be provided with the following necessary information and documentation in respect of all 
claims at Your/Insured Person's expense within 30 days of the Insured Event giving rise to a claim 
or within 30 days from the date of occurrence of an Insured Event or completion of Survival Period 
(in case of Critical Illness Cover).

For medical claims — Cashless Facility:

We will be provided these documents by the Network Provider immediately following the Insured 
Person's discharge from Hospital.

Necessary information and documentation for medical claims

a. Claim form duly completed and signed by the claimant.
b. Details of past medical history record, first and subsequent consultation.
c. Age / Identity proof document of Insured Person in case of claim approved under Cashless 
Facility (not required if submitted at the time of pre-authorization request) and Policyholder in 
case of Reimbursement claim.
i.  Self attested copy of valid age proof (passport / driving license / PAN card / class X 
certificate / birth certificate);
Self attested copy of identity proof (passport / driving license / PAN card / voter identity card);
Recent passport size photograph
d. Cancelled cheque/ bank statement / copy of passbook mentioning account holder's name, IFSC code 
and account number printed on it of Policyholder / nominee ( in case of death of Policyholder).
e. Original discharge summary.
f.  Bar code sticker and invoice for implants and prosthesis (if used and only in case of 
Surgery/Surgical Procedure).
g. Original final bill from Hospital with detailed break-up and paid receipt.
h. Room tariff of the entitled room category (in case of a Non-Network provider and if room tariff 
is not a part of Hospital bill): duly signed and stamped by the Hospital in which treatment is 
taken.
(In case You are unable to submit such document, then We shall consider the Reasonable and 
Customary Charges of the Insured Person's eligible room category of Our Network Provider within the 
same geographical area for identical or similar services.)
Original bills of pharmacy/medicines purchased, or of any other investigation done outside Hospital 
with reports and requisite prescriptions.
j.  For Medico-legal cases (MLC) or in case of Accident MLC/ Panchnama / First Information Report 
(FIR)


Product Name: Health Recharge I roduct UIN: NBHHLIP22156V032122




copy attested by the concerned Hospital / police station (if applicable);
Original self-narration of incident in absence of MLC
/ FIR.
k. Original laboratory investigation, diagnostic, radiological & pathological reports with 
supporting prescriptions.

In the event of the Insured Person's death during Hospitalization, written notice accompanied by a 
copy of the post mortem report (if any) shall be given to Us regardless of whether any other notice 
has been given to Us.

For Personal Accident claims 

Additional claim documentation for Personal Accident Cover under Section 4.1:

1. Accident Death
i.  Copy of death certificate (issued by the office of Registrar of Births and Deaths or any other 
authorized legal institution)
Copy of post mortem report wherever applicable

2.  Accident Permanent Total Disability or Accident Permanent Partial Disability
Certificate of disability issued by a Medical Board duly constituted by the Central and/or the 
State Government.

For Critical Illness claims 

Additional claim documentation for Critical Illness Cover under Section 4.2:

1. Treating Medical Practitioner's certification for insured person's survival post survival 
period.

D. Claims Assessment & Repudiation:
a. At Our discretion, We may investigate claims to determine the validity of a claim. All costs of 
investigation will be borne by Us and all investigations will be carried out by those 
individuals/entities that are authorized by Us in writing.
b.  We shall settle or repudiate a claim within 30 days of the receipt of the last necessary 
information and documentation set out above. However, where the circumstances of a claim warrant an 
investigation in Our opinion, We shall initiate and complete such investigation at the earliest, in 
any case not later than 30 days from the date of receipt of last necessary document. In such cases, 
Insurer shall settle the claim within 45 days from the date of receipt of last necessary document. 
In case
of delay in payment, We shall be liable to pay interest at a rate which is 2% above the bank rate 
prevalent at the beginning of the financial year in which the claim has fallen due.
c.  Payment for Reimbursement claims will be made to You. In the unfortunate event of Your death, 
We will pay the Nominee named in the Policy Schedule or Your legal heirs or legal representatives 
holding a valid succession certificate.
d. If a claim is made which extends in to two Policy Periods, then such claim shall be paid taking 
into consideration the available Sum Insured in these Policy Periods. Such eligible claim amount 
will be paid to the Policyholder/ Insured Person after deducting the extent of premium to be 
received for the Renewal/due date of premium of the Policy, if not received earlier.
e. All admissible claims under this Policy shall be assessed by Us in the following progressive 
order:-
i.  If a room has been opted in a Hospital for which the room category is higher than the eligible 
limit as applicable for that Insured Person as specified in the Policy Schedule, then the 
Associated Medical Expenses payable shall be pro-rated as per the applicable limits in accordance 
with Section 3.1. The Deductible (if applicable) shall be applied to the aggregate of all claims 
that are either paid or payable under this Policy. Our liability to make payment shall commence 
only once the aggregate amount of all eligible claims as per policy terms and conditions exceeds 
the Deductible limit within the same Policy Year.
f.  The claim amount assessed above would be deducted from the amount / sub-limit mentioned against 
each benefit or treatment as per terms and conditions and Sum Insured as specified in the Policy 
Schedule.

E. Delay in Claim Intimation or Claim Documentation:
If the claim is not notified to Us or claim documents are not submitted within the stipulated time 
as mentioned in the above sections, then We shall be provided the reasons for the delay, in 
writing. We will condone such delay on merits where the delay has been proved to be for reasons 
beyond the claimant's control.

F.  Claims process for Section 3.9 (e-Consultation):
After validation of Insured Person and Policy details, We will evaluate the information of the 
Insured Person from the perspective to check eligibility of cover only and if the request is 
approved, We will facilitate arrangement as per the conditions specified under respective benefits 
admissible to the Insured Person.





Niva Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited
Registered office:- C-98, First Floor, Lajpat Nagar, Part 1, New Delhi-110024
Disclaimer: Insurance is a subject matter of solicitation. Niva Bupa Health Insurance Company 
Limited (formerly known as Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited) (IRDAI Registration No. 145). 
‘Bupa’ and ‘HEARTBEAT’ logo are registered trademarks of their respective owners and are being used 
by Niva Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited under license. Customer Helpline: 1860-500-8888. 
Website: www.nivabupa.com. CIN: U66000DL2008PLC182918. For more details on terms and conditions, 
exclusions, risk factors, waiting period & benefits, please read sales brochure carefully before 
concluding a sale.
Product Name: Health Recharge I roduct UIN: NBHHLIP22156V032122



Annexure I
Product Benefit Table (all limits in INR unless defined as percentage)

Base Sum Insured (SI) per Policy Year (in Lacs)      2 L        3 L / 4 L     5 L / 7.5 L / 10L / 
15L / 25L / 40L / 45L / 65L /
70L / 90L / 95L

Annual aggregate Deductible

Baseline cover benefits
In-patient treatment
Nursing charges for Hospitalization as an inpatient excluding Private Nursing charges
Medical Practitioners' fees, excluding any charges or fees for Standby Services
Physiotherapy, investigation and diagnostics procedures directly related to the current admission
Medicines, drugs and consumables as prescribed by the treating Medical Practitioner
Intravenous fluids, blood transfusion, injection administration charges and /or consumables
Operation theatre charges
The cost of prosthetics and other devices or equipment if implanted internally during Surgery 
Intensive Care Unit charges
E-saver: 10k, 25k, 50k
Super Top-up: 1L to 10L in multiples of 1L









Covered up to Sum Insured
Room Rent (per day)               Up to 1% of Base Sum Insured per day   Single private room; up to 
Sum Insured Pre-Hospitalization Medical Expenses (60 days)                Covered up to Sum Insured
Post Hospitali ation Medica Expenses 90 days)                ove ed up to Sum Insured
Day Care Treatment                              Covered up to Sum Insured
Domiciliary treatment                             Covered up to Sum Insured
Alternative treatment                             Covered up to Sum Insured
Living Organ Donor Transplant                         Covered up to Sum Insured Emergency Ambulance 
                          Up to Rs.1,500 per hospitalization
e Consu tation                               Un i ited tele / online consultations
Pharmacy and diagnostic services                Available through our empanelled service provider
Increase of 5% of expiring Base Sum Insured in a Policy Year; maximum up to 50% of

Loyalty Additions
Base Sum Insured; no increase in sub-limits (This benefit is applicable only for Base Sum Insured 
up to Rs. 25 Lac)
Mental Disorders Treatment                 Covered up to Sum Insured (sub-limit applicable on few 
conditions) HIV / AIDS                                  Covered up to Sum Insured
Artificia Life Maintenance                            ove ed up to Sum Insured
Modern Treatments                   Covered up to Sum Insured (sub-limit applicable on few 
conditions)


    OPTIONAL  BENEFITS  (which  may  be  added  at  customer  level  at  an  additional  premium)   
                
Personal Accident cover

- Accident Death
- Accident Permanent Total Disability
- Accident Permanent Partial Disability Critical illness cover
Options available: 1Lac, 2Lacs, 5Lacs to 50Lacs (in multiple of 5Lacs)

Options available: 1Lac to 10Lacs (in multiple of 1 Lac) Single private room; covered up to Sum

Modification in room rent
Insured (optional available only for
deductible more than 50,000)
Not applicable




Product Name: Health Recharge I roduct UIN: NBHHLIP22156V032122



Annexure II
ICD codes for the specified disorders / conditions




Severe Depression Schizophrenia Bipolar Disorder
Post traumatic stress disorder Generalized anxiety disorder
F33- F33.9 090.6, F34.1, F32.0 - F32.9, F30.0 - F30.9, F43.21 F20.0 - F20.8, F21 - F24, F25 - F25.9
F31.0 - F31.9
F43.0, F43.1, F43.2, F43.8, F43.9
F40.1, F41- F41.8, F40.8- F40.9, F60.7, F93.0- F94.0















































Product Name: Health Recharge I roduct UIN: NBHHLIP22156V032122



Annexure III
The expenses that are not covered or subsumed into room charges / procedure charges / costs of 
treatment List I — Expenses not covered


S.No   Item
1    BABY FOOD
S.No   Item
35    OXYGEN CYLINDER (FOR USAGE OUTSIDE THE

2    BABY UTILITIES CHARGES
3      BEAUTY SERVICES                       36
4   BELTS/ BRACES                        37
5   BUDS                             38
6   COLD PACK/HOT PACK                    39
7   CARRY BAGS                         40
g   EMAIL / INTERNET CHARGES                 41
9   FOOD CHARGES (OTHER THAN PATIENT's DIET        42
PROVIDED BY HOSPITAL)                   43
10     LEGGINGS                           44
11     LAUNDRY CHARGES                     45
12     MINERAL WATER                       46
13     SANITARY PAD                        47
14     TELEPHONE CHARGES                    48
15     GUEST SERVICES                       49
16     CREPE BANDAGE                       so
17     DIAPEROFANY TYPE                     s1
18     EYELET COLLAR                        sz
19     SLINGS                            53
20    BLOOD GROUPING AND CROSS MATCHING OF DONORS   54
SAMPLES
21    SERVICE CHARGES WHERE NURSING CHARGE ALSO     55
CHARGED
56
22    TELEVISION CHARGES
57
23    SURCHARGES
58
24    ATTENDANT CHARGES
25    EXTRA DIET OF PATIENT (OTHER THAN THAT WHICH     59
FORMS PART OF BED CHARGE)
60
26    BIRTH CERTIFICATE
61
27    CERTIFICATE CHARGES
62
28    COURIER CHARGES
63
29    CONVEYANCE CHARGES
64
30    MEDICAL CERTIFICATE
65
31    MEDICAL RECORDS
66
32    PHOTOCOPIES CHARGES
67
33    MORTUARY CHARGES
68
34    WALKING AIDS CHARGES
HOSPITAL) SPACER SPIROMETRE NEBULIZER KIT STEAM INHALER ARMSLING THERMOMETER CERVICAL COLLAR SPLINT
DIABETIC FOOT WEAR
KNEE BRACES (LONG/ SHORT/ HINGED)
KNEE IMMOBILIZER/SHOULDER IMMOBILIZER LUMBO SACRAL BELT
NIMBUS BED OR WATER OR AIR BED CHARGES AMBULANCE COLLAR
AMBULANCE EQUIPMENT ABDOMINAL BINDER
PRIVATE NURSES CHARGES- SPECIAL NURSING CHARGES
SUGAR FREE Tablets
CREAMS POWDERS LOTIONS (Toiletries are not payable, only prescribed medical pharmaceuticals 
payable)
ECG ELECTRODES GLOVES NEBULISATION KIT
ANY KIT WITH NO DETAILS MENTIONED [DELIVERY KIT, ORTHOKIT, RECOVERY KIT, ETC]
KIDNEY TRAY MASK
OUNCE GLASS OXYGEN MASK
PELVIC TRACTION BELT PAN CAN
TROLLY COVER UROMETER, URINE JUG AMBULANCE
VASOFIX SAFETY


Product Name: Health Recharge I roduct UIN: NBHHLIP22156V032122



List II — Items that are to be subsumed into Room Charges



S.No   Item
S.No   Item

1    BABY CHARGES (UNLESS SPECIFIED/INDICATED)
2    HAND WASH
3    SHOE COVER
4    CAPS
5    CRADLE CHARGES
6    COMB
7    EAU-DE-COLOGNE/ ROOM FRESHNERS
8    FOOT COVER
9    GOWN
10    SLIPPERS
11    TISSUE PAPER
12    TOOTH PASTE
13    TOOTH BRUSH
14    BED PAN
15    FACE MASK
16    FLEXI MASK
17    HAND HOLDER
18    SPUTUM CUP
19    DISINFECTANT LOTIONS
20    LUXURY TAX
21    HVAC
22    HOUSE KEEPING CHARGES
23    AIR CONDITIONER CHARGES
24    IM IV INJECTION CHARGES
25    CLEAN SHEET
26    BLANKET/WARMER BLANKET
27    ADMISSION KIT
28    DIABETIC CHART CHARGES
29    DOCUMENTATION CHARGES / ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
30    DISCHARGE PROCEDURE CHARGES
31    DAILY CHART CHARGES
32    ENTRANCE PASS / VISITORS PASS CHARGES
33    EXPENSES RELATED TO PRESCRIPTION ON DISCHARGE
34    FILE OPENING CHARGES
35    INCIDENTAL EXPENSES / MISC. CHARGES (NOT EXPLAINED)
36    PATIENT IDENTIFICATION BAND / NAME TAG
37    PULSEOXYMETER CHARGES


List III - Items that are to be subsumed into Procedure Charges


S.No    Item                             S.No    Item

1   HAIR REMOVAL CREAM                    13
2   DISPOSABLES RAZORS CHARGES (for site preparations)    14
3   EYE PAD                            15
4   EYE SHEILD                          16
5   CAMERA COVER                       17
6   DVD, CD CHARGES                      18
7   GAUSE SOFT                         19
8   GAUZE                             20
9   WARD AND THEATRE BOOKING CHARGES          21
10    ARTHROSCOPY AND ENDOSCOPY INSTRUMENTS       22
11     MICROSCOPE COVER                     23
12    SURGICAL BLADES, HARMONICSCALPEL,SHAVER
SURGICAL DRILL EYE KIT
EYE DRAPE X-RAY FILM
BOYLES APPARATUS CHARGES COTTON
COTTON BANDAGE SURGICAL TAPE APRON TORNIQUET
ORTHOBUNDLE, GYNAEC BUNDLE



Product Name: Health Recharge I roduct UIN: NBHHLIP22156V032122



List IV — Items that are to be subsumed into costs of treatment



S.No   Item
S.No   Item

1    ADMISSION/REGISTRATION CHARGES
2    HOSPITALISATION FOR EVALUATION/ DIAGNOSTIC PURPOSE
3    URINE CONTAINER
4   BLOOD RESERVATION CHARGES AND ANTE NATAL BOOKING CHARGES
5   BIPAP MACHINE
6   CPAP/ CAPD EQUIPMENTS
7   INFUSION PUMP— COST
g   HYDROGEN PEROXIDE\SPIRIT\ DISINFECTANTS ETC
9   NUTRITION PLANNING CHARGES - DIETICIAN CHARGES- DIET CHARGES
10    HIV KIT
11    ANTISEPTIC MOUTHWASH
12    LOZENGES
13    MOUTH PAINT
14    VACCINATION CHARGES
15    ALCOHOL SWABES
16    SCRUB SOLUTION/STERILLIUM
17    GLUCOMETER & STRIPS
18    URINE BAG







































Product Name: Health Recharge I roduct UIN: NBHHLIP22156V032122



Annexure IV
List of Insurance Ombudsmen




AHMEDABAD - Shri Kuldip Singh Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Jeevan Prakash Building,
6th floor, Tilak Marg, Relief Road, Ahmedabad — 380 001. Tel.: 079 - 25501201/02/05/06
Email: bimalokpal.ahmedabad@cioins.co.in
BENGALURU - Smt. Neerja Shah Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Jeevan Soudha BuiIding,PID No. 57-27-N-19
Ground Floor, 19/19, 24th Main Road, JP Nagar, Ist Phase, Bengaluru — 560 078.
Tel.: 080 - 26652048 / 26652049
Email: bimalokpal.bengaIuru@cioins.co.in
BHOPAL - Shri Guru Saran Shrivastava Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Janak Vihar Complex, 2nd Floor, 6, Malviya Nagar, Opp. Airtel Office, Near New Market, Bhopal — 462 
003.
Tel.: 0755 - 2769201 / 2769202
Fax: 0755 - 2769203
Email: bimalokpal.bhopaI@cioins.co.in
BHUBANESHWAR - Shri Suresh Chandra Panda Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
62, Forest park, Bhubneshwar —751 009.
Tel.: 0674 - 2596461 /2596455
Fax: 0674 - 2596429
Email: bimalokpal.bhubaneswar@cioins.co.in
CHANDIGARH - Dr. Dinesh Kumar Verma Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
S.C.O. No. 101, 102 & 103, 2nd Floor,
Batra Building, Sector 17 — D, Chandigarh — 160 017. Tel.: 0172 - 2706196 / 2706468
Fax: 0172 - 2708274
Email: bimalokpal.chandigarh@cioins.co.in
CHENNAI - Shri M. Vasantha Krishna Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Fatima Akhtar Court, 4th 
Floor, 453,
Anna Salai, Teynampet, CHENNAI — 600 018. Tel.: 044 - 24333668 / 24335284
Fax: 044 - 24333664
Email: bimalokpal.chennai@cioins.co.in
DELHI - Shri Sudhir Krishna
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 2/2 A, Universal Insurance Building, Asaf Ali Road, New Delhi — 
110 002. Tel.: 011 - 23232481/23213504
Email: bimalokpal.deIhi@cioins.co.in

Gujarat,
UT of Dadra & Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu.



Karnataka.







Madhya Pradesh Chhattisgarh.







Orissa.






Punjab, Haryana (excluding Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat and Bahadurgarh), Himachal Pradesh,
UT of Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh and Chandigarh.




Tamil Nadu, UT-Pondicherry Town and Karaikal (which are part of UT of Pondicherry).





Delhi & Following Districts of Haryana - Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat & Bahadurgarh.







Product Name: Health Recharge I roduct UIN: NBHHLIP22156V032122






GUWAHATI - Shri Kiriti .B. Saha Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Jeevan Nivesh, Sth Floor, Nr. Panbazar over bridge, S.S. Road, Guwahati —781001(ASSAM).
Tel.: 0361 - 2632204 / 2602205
Email: bimalokpal.guwahati@cioins.co.in
HYDERABAD - Shri I. Suresh Babu Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
6-2-46, 1st floor, “Moin Court”, Lane Opp. Saleem Function Palace,
A. C. Guards, Lakdi-Ka-Pool, Hyderabad - 500 004. Tel.: 040 - 23312122
Fax: 040 - 23376599
Email: bimalokpal.hyderabad@cioins.co.in
JAIPUR - Smt. Sandhya Baliga
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Jeevan Nidhi — II Bldg., Gr. Floor, Bhawani Singh Marg, Jaipur - 
302 005. Tel.: 0141 - 2740363
Email: bimalokpal.jaipur@cioins.co.in
ERNAKULAM - Ms. Poonam Bodra Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
2nd Floor, Pulinat Bldg., Opp. Cochin Shipyard, M. G. Road, Ernakulam - 682 015.
Tel.: 0484 - 2358759 / 2359338
Fax: 0484 - 2359336
Email: bimalokpal.ernakulam@cioins.co.in
KOLKATA - Shri P. K. Rath
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Hindustan Bldg. Annexe, 4th Floor, 4, C.R. Avenue, KOLKATA - 700 072.
Tel.: 033 - 22124339 / 22124340
Fax : 033 - 22124341
Email: bimalokpal.kolkata@cioins.co.in
LUCKNOW -Shri Justice Anil Kumar Srivastava Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
6th Floor, Jeevan Bhawan, Phase-II,
Nawal Kishore Road, Hazratganj, Lucknow - 226 001. Tel.: 0522 - 2231330 / 2231331
Fax: 0522 - 2231310
Email: bimalokpal.Iucknow@cioins.co.in

MUMBAI - Shri Milind A. Kharat Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 3rd Floor, Jeevan Seva Annexe,
S. V. Road, Santacruz (W), Mumbai - 400 054. Tel.: 022 - 26106552 / 26106960
Fax: 022 - 26106052
Email: bimalokpal.mumbai@cioins.co.in
Assam, Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland and Tripura.




Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, UT of Yanam and part of UT of Pondicherry






Rajasthan.






Kerala, UT of Lakshadweep, Mahe-a part of UT of Pondicherry.







West Bengal, Sikkim, UT of Andaman & Nicobar Islands.







Districts of Uttar Pradesh :
Lalitpur, Jhansi, Mahoba, Hamirpur, Banda, Chitrakoot, Allahabad, Mirzapur, Sonbhabdra, Fatehpur, 
Pratapgarh, Jaunpur,Varanasi, Gazipur, Jalaun, Kanpur, Lucknow, Unnao, Sitapur, Lakhimpur, 
Bahraich, Barabanki, Raebareli, Sravasti, Gonda, Faizabad, Amethi, Kaushambi, Balrampur, Basti, 
Ambedkarnagar, Sultanpur, Maharajgang, Santkabirnagar, Azamgarh, Kushinagar, Gorkhpur, Deoria, Mau, 
Ghazipur, Chandauli, Ballia, Sidharathnagar.
Goa,
Mumbai Metropolitan Region excluding Navi Mumbai & Thane








Product Name: Health Recharge I roduct UIN: NBHHLIP22156V032122






NOIDA - Shri Chandra Shekhar Prasad Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Bhagwan Sahai Palace 4th Floor, Main Road,
Naya Bans, Sector 15, Distt: Gautam Buddh Nagar, U.P-201301. Tel.: 0120-2514252 / 2514253
Email: bimalokpal.noida@cioins.co.in

PATNA - Shri N. K. Singh
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 1st Floor, Kalpana Arcade Building„
Bazar Samiti Road, Bahadurpur, Patna 800 006. Tel.: 0612-2680952
Email: bimalokpal.patna@cioins.co.in
PUNE - Shri Vinay Sah
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Jeevan Darshan Bldg., 3rd Floor, C.T.S. No.s. 195 to 198,
N.C. Kelkar Road, Narayan Peth, Pune — 411 030. Tel.: 020-41312555
Email: bimalokpal.pune@cioins.co.in

EXECUTIVE COUNCIL OF INSURERS,
3rd Floor, Jeevan Seva Annexe,
S. V. Road, Santacruz (W), Mumbai - 400 054.

Tel.: 022 - 69038801/03/04/05/06/07/08/09
Email: inscoun@cioins.co.in
Shri B. C. Patnaik, Secretary General Smt Poornima Gaitonde, Secretary
State of Uttaranchal and the following Districts of Uttar Pradesh: Agra, Aligarh, Bagpat, Bareilly, 
Bijnor, Budaun, Bulandshehar, Etah, Kanooj, Mainpuri, Mathura, Meerut, Moradabad, Muzaffarnagar, 
Oraiyya, Pilibhit, Etawah, Farrukhabad, Firozbad, Gautambodhanagar, Ghaziabad, Hardoi, 
Shahjahanpur,
Hapur, Shamli, Rampur, Kashganj, Sambhal, Amroha, Hathras, Kanshiramnagar, Saharanpur.
Bihar, Jharkhand.




Maharashtra,
Area of Navi Mumbai and Thane excluding Mumbai Metropolitan Region.




























Product Name: Health Recharge I roduct UIN: NBHHLIP22156V032122
